By BO Staff Writer The following article was previously published on 22 October 2017 on the BLF website and is reissued by BO. Black First Land First (BLF) calls on the British Lord and colonialist, Peter Hain, to refrain from his evil scheme of regime change in South Africa. Britain failed dismally to stop the land revolution in Zimbabwe to save its kith and kin. Hain is terrified of the call for radical economic transformation, which is underpinned by the commitment to land expropriation without compensation. Hain’s agenda is to halt the land revolution in South Africa by targeting leaders believed to be for radical economic transformation. The attack on South African sovereignty under the guise of fighting corruption is actually to avoid the emergence of a pro-radical economic transformation president in December. Hain is doing his dirty job to undermine Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma who may emerge as the incoming president of the ruling party. Hain wants Cyril Ramaphosa as president so that colonial looting can continue unabated. It must be remembered that Lonmin, the company which is responsible for the murdering of workers in Marikana, is a British firm which gave Ramaphosa shares. BLF notes with sadness that Hain and the USA aggression has been invited and facilitated by opposition parties and pro-white monopoly capital elements inside the African National Congress (ANC). These people have sold South Africa to Britain and USA. Hain’s insults are calculated to measure the levels of resistance a coup may face. His actions are coordinated with those of the USA. South Africa is facing another Anglo-American invasion to halt the march to radical economic transformation. BLF calls on both the USA and Britain to stay away from our country. We refuse to be colonised again. We don’t need your indifference. Africa shall find African solutions to African problems. What we want from Britain and the USA is reparations for slavery and colonialism. Peter Hain must shut up and pay reparations now. Hain is not a friend of the black majority, he is a bloody colonialist. ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT (BLF NCC) 22 October 2017 Contact Details
Black First Land First
Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@­gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Deputy National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664