By BO Staff Writer The radical black consciousness movement, Black First Land First (BLF), says they have the answer to why the South African national soccer team, Bafana Bafana, keeps on losing matches – landlessness! Last night, Bafana Bafana lost 2 – 0 to Senegal thereby failing to qualify for the soccer World Cup in Russia next year In a statement the movement said the team keeps losing because it “They are victims of landlesness. The key to Bafana Bafana’s victory is just one thing: take the land back! Bafana Bafana is a landless national team. It plays like the landless. It has the psychology of the landless and defeated. You can’t rig the fact of landlessness with empty hype. We love Bafana Bafana but we won’t lie to them and raise false hopes. Let’s get the land back folks.” Read BLF’s full statement below: The South African national soccer team, Bafana Bafana, won’t win anything major until we get the land back. Black First Land First (BLF) supports the national team but our support is principled. All national teams play for their country’s pride. We blacks do not have a country. South Africa currently is in white hands. Whites stole our country in 1652 and they still have it. All black people are like visitors in this country. BLF doesn’t blame the Bafana Bafana players for failing to qualify for the International Federation of Association Football (FIFA) World Cup. They are victims of landlesness. The key to Bafana Bafana’s victory is just one thing: take the land back! Bafana Bafana is a landless national team. It plays like the landless. It has the psychology of the landless and defeated. You can’t rig the fact of landlessness with empty hype. We love Bafana Bafana but we won’t lie to them and raise false hopes. Lets get the land back folks. As for the national team’s coach, BLF doesn’t recognise him. He is a foreigner and a soldier of fortune. We need an African coach who understands the national dynamics and rhythms. BLF shall work hard to ensure that we have our country back. Only then shall we win and our victory would be meaningful. BLF calls on the Bafana Bafana players to be ambassadors for the return of the stolen land. #LandOrDeath!
#VictoryIsCertain!