By BO Staff Writer The following article was previously published on 20 October 2017 on the BLF website and is reissued by BO. Black First Land First (BLF) is appalled by the reports that the United States and British imperialism have now decided to interfere directly in the affairs of South Africa. The reports that the FBI and Scotland Yard are investigating President Jacob Zuma, his son, Duduzane Zuma, and the Guptas are disturbing to the extreme. It’s clear that imperialism has failed to institute regime change through their proxies like they have done in Brazil, now they are doing it directly by using their agencies to try regime change in South Africa. The attack is organised against those they believe stand for radical economic transformation. This imperialist attack is calculated to weaken the radical economic transformation forces towards the December conference of the African National Congress (ANC) where Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma (NDZ) is expected to emerge and continue implementing the programme of radical economic transformation which must prioritise land expropriation without compensation, implementation of the Mining Charter, free education and a minimum wage. BLF will not allow an imperialist coup! We as the revolutionary movement, which is anti-imperialist, will defend the rights of President Zuma, NDZ and the Guptas. It is clear the focus on the Guptas is calculated to intimidate any business people who might support radical economic transformation. When they are done with the Guptas, President Zuma and NDZ, they are coming for us. That’s what they have done in Libya, that’s what they are doing in Brazil, that’s what they are doing in Venezuela. We say no to imperialism in our country!!! BLF Stands with President Zuma, NDZ and Guptas! Land or Death. Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 20 October 2017 Black First Land First Email: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.comFacebook: Black First Land FirstTwitter: @black1stland1stWebsite: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Deputy National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664