By BO Staff Writer The following article was previously published on 17 October 2017 on the BLF website and is reissued by BO. Black First Land First (BLF) congratulates the President of the country, Jacob Zuma, for removing one more agent of white monopoly capital and a mole of Johann Rupert inside the ruling party and in cabinet. President Zuma has given direction on radical economic transformation, therefore it makes sense that those who stand against radical economic transformation should leave his government. We call upon all other agents of white monopoly capital who serve under the hest of President Zuma to voluntarily leave government so that they can openly pursue their agenda against transformation. Blade Nzimande is a consistent defender of white monopoly capital. He is a vile and corrupt communist who has soiled the name of communism and uses it as a cover to defend the capitalist class which is white and is monopolising the economy. President Zuma has yet again shown leadership. We haven’t forgotten that he removed Pravin Gordhan and all other agents of white monopoly capital must face a similar fate. We call upon the ruling party itself, more so those comrades who support radical economic transformation, that they must be resolute and uncompromising in dealing with agents of white monopoly capital. Black people need radical economic transformation now! We cannot allow those who are agents of the enemy any position of leadership and to sabotage the dream of our people to get their land, the economy and also to enjoy the wealth of our mineral rights. We thank and congratulate the president for showing leadership in this regard. Izwelethu! ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT (BLF NCC) 17 October 2017 Contact Details
Black First Land First
Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@­gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(BLF Deputy President)
Cell: +27 79 986 7225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Deputy National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664