By BO Staff Writer Yesterday in Thokoza, Ekurhuleni, Black First Land First (BLF) held a successful rally on radical economic transformation. The aim of the rally, which was attended by more than 5000 people, was to express the movement’s support for the programme of radical economic transformation. In his keynote address, BLF president, Andile Mngxitama, expressed the need for a black minimum programme, like radical economic transformation, to unite all black people. He warned that supporting radical economic transformation doesn’t mean just only expressing it in words, but following it up with practical steps such as land occupations. The rally came out strong against evictions by banks and metro cities. Mngxitama challenged the mayor of Ekurhuleni, Mzwandile Masina, to stop evictions if he is serious about radical economic transformation. He said BLF would be planning a shutdown of the Gauteng province to say no to evictions. Mngxitama warned that the poor and the landless must not be fooled by politicians who say ‘vote for me and I will give you land’. BLF also came out against Cyril Ramaphosa as a future president. They said Ramaphosa is a candidate of white monopoly capital and land thieves who killed people in Marikana. Mngxitama said it’s time for a woman who is committed to the radical economic transformation agenda to lead South Africa. BLF explained that Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma must lead the ANC and the country. BLF called on the landless to take back the land as part of supporting radical economic transformation and land expropriation without compensation. The people have to own radical economic transformation or politicians will make it an empty promise. The rally also came out strong against racism and the coup in Zimbabwe. The movement expressed complete opposition to the attempts of a coup in Zimbabwe. They said Mugabe is being removed by whites who lost land in Zimbabwe. Mngxitama called on the Economic Freedom Fighters’ (EFF) Julius Malema to join forces with him to defeat the racism of Afriforum through direct action. Mngxitama said if Afriforum organizes another festival of apartheid and it is permitted, then it must be dealt with at street level. The rally closed on a high note with a powerful performance by legendary Blondie Makhene.