By BO Staff Writer On Saturday evening a packed Blacks in Dialogue (BID) event of Black First Land First (BLF) debated the organizations response to the ruling party’s Policy Discussion documents. The BLF response titled “Don’t sell us out again“ outlines several key policy proposals to realise Radical Economic Transformation (RET). BLF leader, Andile Mngxitama and former Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) parliamentarian and recent PhD graduate Dr Khanyisile Litchfield-Tshabalala, both gave engaging responses, noting that the ANC had two prominent factions, and that the most progressive of those factions, which Dr Litchfield-Tshabalala called the “Nationalist faction”, must be engaged. Dr Litchfield-Tshabalala also noted that the reactionary, pro-white monopoly capital faction cannot be engaged because “they have sold their soul” to capital. Mngxitama, noted the key proposals by BLF to the ANC delegates to the policy conference to be held later in the month. He said that the ruling party must reject the draft policy discussion documents which were drafted by the pro-white monopoly capital faction supporting Pravin Gordhan and Cyril Ramaphosa. He said BLF must ask the ANC to adopt resolutions that affirm the call by President Jacob Zuma – “land expropriation without compensation” – and that this must be made policy of the ANC. Furthermore, he noted, the movement wants clear measures to realise RET to be undertaken such as the nationalisation of banks, establishment of black banks and state owned banks within the next twelve months. In its response document, BLF calls for the state and black banks to operate on a different logic than white owned banks, in particular, they must adopt the banking system that conforms to “interest free loans” to blacks. BLF also calls on the government to immediately withdraw its accounts from the corrupt and racist ABSA. Mngxitama said at the event that the organisation would be engaging different audiences, ANC branches and delegates, asking them not to sell out again, like they have been doing for the last 23 years. Responding to the BLF’s call on engaging the ANC, Dr Litchfield-Tshabalala said that it was a correct historical move to do so, given the fact that the ANC is the governing party. She said that the ruling party needed to come out clearly on their position on RET without fear. She questioned why President Zuma was not expelling those who are going against RET inside the ANC. Listen to the full recording of the event here.    