By Andile MngxitamaIt may strike many as an outlandish claim that the Cape Storms are a direct product of global capitalism and its local representatives we know as white monopoly capital. Truth is for the last 500 years or so, capitalists have not just destroyed people through the long holocaust of the cross Atlantic slavery where they came and captured people as if we were animals to enslave. At the same time for profits, the same evil forces assaulted nature. What we see today is the ecological costs of capitalism and racism.To be sure, there were storms before capitalism and racism. Humans understood their range and quite rage. A life negotiated for mutual co existence. Very little operated outside of this truce. As long as we didn&#8217;t disrupt nature, mother nature gave in abundance. But then things changed. The white man appeared, phallic, with gluttonous intentions.The ecological disaster awaiting planet earth is a direct creation of white people. The western thought is inherently violent, cumulative and destructive. See how quickly whites ate up all their animals in the west? They eat until there is nothing to eat, the western thought has no sense of tommorow. In contrast, almost all indigenous knowledge systems and philosophies of life put a premium on the day after tommorow and on a healthy balance between nature and humans. It&#8217;s not out of stupidity that we didn&#8217;t eat all our animals and kill all the fish in the ocean. Its out of respect for the healthy balance needed so that our progeny should have a life and beautiful co-existence with nature.When we lost the battle against slavery, colonialism and in (South Africa) SA apartheid, it meant loss of capacity to protect the ecosystem. Those who captured us also captured nature. Those who assaulted us also assaulted nature. The circles of floods and droughts are the direct outcomes of the assault. Mother nature can&#8217;t breath. We can&#8217;t breath. Africa pays the highest ecological cost for the pollution of earth caused by whites. We haven&#8217;t stopped paying for their demented good life.There are no more natural disasters. We only have white made disasters. The occurrence of any &#8220;natural&#8221; phenomenon today from droughts to earthquakes are the direct creation of white hands. Furthermore, all such &#8220;natural&#8221; occurrences are anti black and racist constructs. The Cape Storms are the creation of global and local capitalist forces. It&#8217;s racist to the core. The body bags will show a disproportionate racialised impact. The Cape Storms are going to kill black people. Why? Because colonialism and apartheid have placed blacks in harm&#8217;s way in order to provide protection to whites. Look at the apartheid spacial designs. It was deliberate and elaborate.The Cape Storms are a creation of whites. The impact on blacks is another outcome of white greed and the evil system of accumulation. The deaths must be placed at the door steps of families like the Oppenheimers and the Ruperts with their political arm the Democratic Aliance (DA). Helen Zille must account for more than the denial of colonialism.Yes we know the black truth collides with the white lie to cause a storm in the settled scaffoldings of how we see the world. Once you have seen black, you can see the very contours of white power and the depths of its evil logic and designs. When the black calculus is done the truth shall lay bare like an uprooted tree trunk after the devilish Cape Storms unleashed by evil white forces in search of more to take. More to to eat. They have eaten earth dead!Andile Mngxitama is the President of Black First Land First (BLF)