By BO Staff Writer Leaked emails reveal an illegal plan to harass Members of Parliament (MPs) into voting against President Zuma. The claims in the leaked emails, which have been verified by sources close to the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (OUTA) indicate that a conspiracy to use extra judicial means to oust President Zuma has been hatched by the three regime change organizations. The plan entails the publishing of the personal information of MPs such as their current phone numbers, Facebook accounts, Twitter handles and, more disturbingly, the physical addresses of law makers. The idea is to subject the MPs to extreme pressure through public threats and harassment. The plan was discussed after it emerged that 60 African National Congress (ANC) MPs, who are bought to vote with the opposition, developed cold feet. Currently the campaign of Pravin Gordhan, Dr Makhosi Khoza and Mondli Gungubele, which is clandestinely supported by the likes of Jackson Mthembu, is falling apart. This has promoted the regime change group to consider plan B. But there are some disagreements amongst the three organizations. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) raised the possibility of being made accountable for treason, but OUTA seemed to think that they can get away with it – just like it happened with the so-called Gupta leaks. A more disturbing part of the plan includes the capture of a Judge of the High Court. Sources indicate that should the tide not turn in favour of the regime change forces, a Judge has been engaged in the plan to interdict the motion of no confidence that is set to take place in the National Assembly next week Tuesday. The Judge would then grant the interdict and the regime change forces would try to regain momentum towards a motion of no confidence. The three organizations are worried that if President Zuma survives another motion of no confidence, then his authority would be consolidated. Black Opinion (BO) has knowledge of the name of the Judge who is implicated. During the next few days, more information will be published by BO. Now it’s a matter of waiting and seeing if plan A will be unleashed. Things look desperate for the regime change forces.