By BO Staff Writer Today, AmaBhungane’s Stefaans Brummer intimidated Black First Land First (BLF) leaders, President, Andile Mngxitama, Deputy President, Zanele Lwana, Treasurer, Thandiswa Yaphi and Spokesperson Lindsay Maasdorp, at the Cape Town International Airport. Brummer, who Mngxitama has opened a case of intimidation against, followed the leaders and took pictures of them as they walked. Read BLF’s full statement about the incident below: AmaBhungane provokes BLF leaders About an hour ago (2 August 2017) at the Cape Town International Airport, AmaBhungane’s Stefaans Brummer – the same white man that the Black First Land First (BLF) President, Comrade Mngxitama, has opened a case of intimidation against – repeated his program of provocation. BLF leaders were walking out of the airport when he blocked their way and whipped out a phone camera. He jeered at them provocatively whilst filming or pretending to do so. The BLF leaders were understandably offended by this, more so because it is the same individual that the BLF President has opened a case against. AmaBhungane claims to be upholding the Rule of Law while at the same time it runs to court after creating an environment where the victims of their provocation are left with no option but to act in self defence. BLF has already indicated that AmaBhungane is the spokesperson of white monopoly capital that in turn is hellbent on silencing BLF, which is the arch opponent of the same land thieves and exploiters in our country. It is clear that the provocation just experienced by the BLF leaders is designed to give credence to the vexatious urgent application to get the President of BLF arrested under the false pretext of breaching an existing court interdict. BLF will inform the investigating officer in the case against Brummer about the continued harassment from Amabhungane. BLF is contemplating approaching the court for a retraining order against Stefaans Brummer who is acting with impunity against BLF. Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 2 August 2017
Black First Land First Email: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Deputy National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664