By BO Staff Writer White-owned media has struck again with yet another sensational fake story about the Gupta family. The white monopoly capital founded and funded so-called ‘investigative unit’, Amabhungane, News24 and Daily Maverick, have published a completely fake story about the owners of Oakbay and their tax returns. The story is entirely based on the “e-mail leaks” which have not been authenticated by any independent assessor. The story in question relies on unauthenticated SARS information and comment from an unnamed tax “expert”. The story is a clear lie calculated to take the focus away from the fact that the Gupta family has been selling off their businesses to save jobs. The fake story by Amabhungane, News24 and Daily Maverick is aimed at generating animosity towards the Gupta family as it continues to show great patriotism and care for its workforce. The Guptas are on a crusade to save 7500 jobs of the Oakbay group. This is happening at the same time when white owned companies such as AngloGold Ashanti, which is led by Save South Africa’s Sipho Pityana, is cutting over 8500 jobs. It is ironic that Pityana wants to Save South Africa but cannot save 8500 jobs. These white monopoly capital founded and funded fake news generators don’t want the nation to know the truth that the Guptas are saving jobs through massive sacrifices. The efforts to save jobs has seen the Guptas sell some of their businesses like their media platforms The New Age and ANN7, and their coal mine Tegeta. The crisis for Oakbay was created by white monopoly capital in its effort to squeeze the Guptas out of the South African economy. Amabhungane and Daily Maverick continue to run away from a debate with Black First Land First (BLF) which was ordered by the Johannesburg High Court. This is because these two entities would be exposed for being manufacturers of fake news. It looks like some white monopoly capital supporters within SARS may be trying to destroy the Gupta family by assisting the media in writing such propaganda stories so that an investigation can be opened. The fake SARS story must be understood as yet another attempt by white monopoly capital to push fake news to demonise the Gupta family.