By BO Staff Writer Who would have thought that the small Patriotic Allience (PA) of Gayton Mckenzie would outshine Malema’s overrated Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) so badly? PA has far outdone the EFF’s unethical politics. It has given Julius Malema a taste of his own bitter medicine by entering into an unholy deal with the Democratic Alliance (DA) to render the United Democratic Movement (UDM) of General Bantu Holomisa redundant in the Nelson Mandela Bay Metropolitan Municipality (NMB). The PA and DA deal has led to the unceremonious removal of the UDM from the position of Deputy Mayor. The NMB council yesterday voted in favour of a motion of no confidence in the UDM Deputy Mayor, Mongameli Bobani. Insiders claim that the position will now go to the PA. The unprincipled politics of “the better devil” has come back to bite Malema on the backside. EFF was reduced by these events to issuing a long press statement of laments about the conduct of their coalition partner, the DA. It is clear from the press statement that the DA treats the EFF as garden boys. The DA shows that it doesn’t take Julius Malema seriously. The EFF has no choice but to obey the will of the DA because the coalition is a creation of Lord Robin Renwick from London. EFF can’t break the coalition without the permission of London and the DA knows this hence it’s arrogant attitude. EFF is like a slave tied to the master. The PA deal with the DA has exposed the EFF as lame ducks and voting cattle for the DA to maintain power in the metropolitan municipalities. The DA is in power and the EFF dances to its tune. Holomisa is a joke. The next few days will see significant changes at the NMB. It must be said that Gayton Mckenzie can be pleased with his tactical superiority which had left the EFF with a big fat stinking egg on its face. The lesson here is simple, “whites are not your friends Julius and they are not a better evil. They are the ultimate evil”. Here is the EFF’s pathetic lament to their bosses, the DA: “Thursday, August 24, 2017 The EFF notes the removal of the UDM Councillor Mongameli Bobani as Deputy Mayor in a motion of no confidence today. The Democratic Alliance is responsible for this motion and has supported it without first entering into a national consultation process with the UDM leadership and other opposition parties. We view this as pure bullying by the DA which is failing to lead and work in a respectable way with smaller political parties. The DA behaves as though it won elections in Nelson Mandela when it did not. It also proves not to appreciate the concept of power sharing which means precisely that: they must “share” political power with others in order to govern. As a result of this behaviour in Nelson Mandela, the EFF will not be voting with the DA on any issue in Nelson Mandela Metro until they radically change their attitude towards other coalition partners belonging to smaller parties. Although the EFF is not in any coalition or cooperation with the DA, we view their behaviour in Nelson Mandela Metro as a threat to coalition politics that can remove the corrupt ANC out of power even in the future. Above all, we warn them that their behaviour in Nelson Mandela will affect all other municipalities where they rely on opposition parties in order to govern; in particular in Tshwane and Johannesburg. The reality is that behaviour of the DA in Nelson Mandela is consistent with their conduct elsewhere in the country including in Parliament. They lack humility, political consultation and patience with smaller parties. They suffer the same arrogance of power that has characterizes the ANC over the year and for which people are now removing it from power across the country. It is true that even in Mogale City, the confusion was caused by the DA which in the end led to EFF councillors voting with the ANC. These symptoms of the arrogance of power show everywhere even in Johannesburg and Tshwane where they ignore consultation and sharing of decision-making. This arrogance borders on white supremacy because often relying on Maimane’s word as a leader proves futile unless James Self or John Steinhuisen are taken on board. Maimane seems incapable of leadership on his own; if political party leaders meet with the view to reach agreements on many issues, Maimane is incapable, on his own to take decisions without the supervision and guidance of James Self. When opposition unity and cooperation fails in the important mission to remove the arrogant and kleptocratic ANC, the people of South Africa must put the blame squarely on the feet of the DA. The same arrogance of power that closed the ears of the ANC from any humble advice about its conduct now grips the DA. What is worse is that in all cases where the DA chooses to bully smaller parties like in Nelson Mandela, they have not won elections. A future without the ANC in power is essentially a future without any party that suffers from the arrogance of power. The DA must not replace a tendency with a tendency, where we will have the same arrogance of power, only dressed in blue colours. ISSUED BY THE ECONOMIC FREEDOM FIGHTERS
MBUYISENI QUINTIN NDLOZI (National Spokesperson)
Website: http://www.effonline.org
Email: communications@effonline.org
Facebook: Mbuyiseni Quintin Ndlozi || Twitter: @EFFSouthAfrica and @MbuyiseniNdlozi” Quite evidently, the EFF is a weak branch of the DA! 