By BO Staff Writer This following article was previously published on the BLF website on 24 August 2017 and is reissued below by Black Opinion. Black First Land First (BLF) condemns the naked brutality being currently unleashed by the police and private security acting on the instructions of the white monopoly capitalist mining house, Ekapa Minera (Ekapa), against the Kimberly Artisanal Small Scale Miners (KASSM) who are also referred to as the Zama Zamas. We further condemn the forced unlawful evictions and other acts of criminality that the Zama Zamas are being subjected to at gun point. Ekapa’s cowardly and criminal actions has been escalating with impunity in the past few weeks. The Zama Zamas, many of who are also members of BLF, are subjected daily to inhuman treatment and harassment by the white mining houses. Right now the mining equipment of the artisinal miners, which are their tools of trade, are being stolen by Ekapa via the employment of a private security company. The miners are thus being deprived of their livelihoods. Ekapa does not have mining rights to the land – they in fact have no rights to the land. They are land thieves who are illegally mining on the land. In a meeting held this morning the artisanal miners requested that Ekapa returns their mining equipment – they refused to do so and instead called the police and private security on the miners. All the land in white hands in South Africa (SA), including the mines, is stolen property. The Zama Zamas are the only politically legitimate black miners in the country because they are able to earn a living wage within an anti black system of governance. Furthermore, they are able to function independently of the control of white monopoly capital in the system of mining. BLF calls for Radical Economic Transformation in the mining sector that will revolutionize mining so as to benefit the real owners, being blacks. BLF calls for an end to the violence and all other acts of criminality against the Zama Zamas. This must be facilitated by the recognition over the floors, mining permits by the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR), land return, regularisation, an end to evictions, legal standing and recognition. Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 24 August 2017 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Deputy National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664