By BO Staff Writer Black Opinion is reissuing the following article which was previously published on the BLF website on 03 August 2017: Daily Maverick’s The Gathering event, sponsored by Nandos in Cape Town instructed security to prevent the President of Black First Land First (BLF) Andile Mngxitama from entering the event. Mngxitama was told by Charl Barnaard, the head of security at the entrance, that he was instructed by Daily Maverick to ban Mngxitama from entering the venue despite the fact that Mngxitama had bought a ticket to enter the venue. BLF believes that the reason why Mngxitama was prevented from entering the gathering is to run away from debate that would expose the fake news generated by Daily Maverick and other agents of white monopoly capital such as Media24, HuffingpostSA and AmaBhungane. These organizations that claim to be for media freedom are opposed to freedom of expression and open debate. The BLF delagation left the venue without being refunded the R7500 they had spent on the tickets. BLF considers the action of Daily Maverick as part of the campaign to prevent free debate. BLF is vindicated yet again. It is clear for all to see that amaBhungane want to silence our organization and get our leaders arrested because we are the enemy of White Monopoly Capital. These organizations are not for media freedom, they are propaganda organs of White Monopoly Capital, used to ensure continued looting. BLF asks, why is AmaBhungane not interested in who steals R147 billion rands annually and take it outside of the country? This is how much white monopoly capital steals every year from South Africa, but this is not reported. ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT (BLF NCC) 3 August 2017 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Deputy National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664