By BO Staff Writer Black Opinion is reissuing the following article which was previously published on the BLF website earlier today:  Black First Land First (BLF) President, Andile Mngxitama, together with the BLF KwaZulu Natal Provincial leadership met with members of Sun Multi Serve in Durban on 13 August 2017. We discussed all the issues pertaining to their struggle to recover R150 million which has been frozen by the South African Reserve Bank (SARB). BLF has been given the mandate to pursue this case. To this end we have been mandated to find justice and to make sure that the R150 million is returned. The meeting agreed that a part of this huge investment, once recovered, should be used towards the establishment of a black bank. BLF had asked for further particulars which has now been provided by Sun Multi Serve. These particulars clearly show, without any shadow of doubt, that Christo Wiese (who is the Shoprite owner, one of the richest persons in South Africa and the funder of the National Party under apartheid) had a big role in shutting down the Sun Multi Serve stokvel and freezing its account. At the relevant time Christo Wiese was the Registrar of Banks which is a division of SARB. He occupied this post from 1995 to 2003. It is also important to note that Wiese had previously held the position of the Deputy General Manager of SARB from 1989 to 1991. BLF is of the view that Wiese acted as he did against Sun Multi Serve, in defence and protection of the monopoly of banks by white monopoly capital. BLF is now developing a strategy to recover these funds and shall pursue this case to finality. We reiterate our call for a Black Bank to be established without any further delay. Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 19 August 2017 Black First Land First Email: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Deputy National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664  