By BO Staff Writer The white monopoly capital funded Daily Maverick are now trying to divert attention from the fact that they barred black people from entering their Gathering event, by generating fake news about Brian Molefe. A white Daily Maverick reporter called Black First Land First (BLF) president, Andile Mngxitama, and its spokesperson, Lindsay Maasdorp, asking about the ownership of a car Maasdorp was driving. They asked stupid questions like who owns the car, why is BLF driving the car and when is Maasdorp returning the car. Daily Maverick is trying to move the narrative away from their blocking of alternative views.  Read BLF’s full statement below: Daily Maverick, who illegally prevented members of Black First Land First (BLF) from entering the so-called Nandos Gathering, are now lying to divert attention. A journalist from Daily Maverick called the President of BLF, Andile Mngxitama, and erroneously claimed BLF’s flight tickets were paid for by the Guptas. This was stated as fact. When Mngxitama demanded she produce evidence for this claim she tried to change the story by saying she was asking a question when she was absolutely clear about the accusations. The journalist also claimed that BLF was riding in Brian Molefe’s car. She asked this as if it’s some kind of a crime to get a lift from a car owned by a black person. The fact is simply this, Brian Molefe’s son is an active member of BLF at the University of Cape Town (UCT) branch, and like a true comrade, he allows his comrades to use his car from time to time. The car was driven by the spokesperson of BLF, comrade Linsday Maasdorp, who is a personal friend of Molefe’s son. What is clear is that Daily Maverick is doing all it can to divert attention from the fact that they are manufacturers of fake news. They also want to divert attention from the fact that BLF was illegally prevented from an event it paid for. Daily Maverick and Amabhungane are running away from an open debate with BLF. BLF calls on Daily Maverick and Amabhungane to stop the fake news and agree to an open debate so that they can be exposed for the lies they write. It’s not a crime to get a ride from any black person’s car. We continue to call on black people to help our movement to fight and defeat White Monopoly Capital which is the real enemy of our people. ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT (BLF NCC) 3 August 2017 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Deputy National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664