By BO Staff Writer The black consciousness movement, Black First Land First (BLF), says it will open cases of racism against Democratic Alliance (DA) Western Cape Premier, Helen Zille. “BLF shall be opening cases of racism against Helen Zille with the Equality Court, and report her to the Human Rights Commission,” the movement said in a statement on Thursday. The DA leader tweeted that colonialism was not all bad and that without it, we would have never had “independent judiciary, transport infrastructure, piped water etc.” For those claiming legacy of colonialism was ONLY negative, think of our independent judiciary, transport infrastructure, piped water etc. — Helen Zille (@helenzille) March 16, 2017  Would we have had a transition into specialised health care and medication without colonial influence? Just be honest, please. — Helen Zille (@helenzille) March 16, 2017  Getting onto an aeroplane now and won’t get onto the wi-fi so that I can cut off those who think EVERY aspect of colonial legacy was bad. — Helen Zille (@helenzille) March 16, 2017  In the statement, the movement blasted the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) for giving votes to the DA in three municipalities, bolstering white racism in the country. “We have also begged the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) not to give political power to the racist DA. The arrogance of Helen Zille comes from governing four metropolitan municipalities, three of which are as a result of the EFF taking the votes of blacks and giving them to the racist DA. For this the EFF has to apolgise to the nation,” BLF said. “BLF calls on the EFF to immediately break its coalition with the DA if it is serious about fighting racism.” Read the BLF’s full statement here. The ruling party, African National Congress (ANC), said in a statement that it was “appalled, although not surprised” by Zille’s utterances, saying she is a “colonial apologist”. The ANC called for the DA to recall Zille so as to “send a more stronger message that there is no place in democratic South Africa for leaders that are apologists for such cruel and unjust systems whose long-term effect continue to hold our people back to this day.” On the other hand, the Right-Leftists, the EFF released a flaccid statement which called for the firing of Zille. The reds seemed to be tongue-tided at the face of Zille’s racism, not condemining their coalition partners (DA) for their generalised racism, but instead condemning Zille for not appreciating “our democratic dispensation”.