By BO Staff Writer Sources close to the leadership of the Democratic Alliance (DA) claim that the leader of the opposition party has been summoned to London by Lord Robin Renwick. This follows the tension in the party after the racist comments by the party’s effective leader, Helen Zille. Maimane has been put under pressure to appear to be in control and has insisted that some kind of action be taken against Zille. It is said that the white men who control the DA are very unhappy with these attempts by Maimane and had reported him to Renwick who is the controller of the South African opposition parties and handles some powerful figures in the ruling party as well. Maimane slipped quietly out of South Africa earlier in the week under the cover of a “roadshow” to London. Renwick is credited for taming both Nelson Mandela and Julius Malema. The recent indication of the influence that Renwick has over South African politics was seen by the untimely political death suffered by once-promising political career of Dr. Mamphele Ramphele. It must be remembered that Dr. Ramphele was forced to kiss Helen Zille after she had been to London. Also in 2015, the leader of the Economic Freedom Fighters Julius Malema was also tamed by Renwick in London. After meeting Renwick, Malema turned against President Robert Mugabe and radical land redistribution to fight for regime change and “unused land”.  Sources say Malema was also advised against occupying ABSA, at least until Barclays had sold its stake in the bank. According to the sources, this explains why Malema has refused to occupy ABSA even after evidence surfaced that it has unlawfully benefited from stealing money from the government. The DA sources say London is worried about the current ruction inside the DA. They claim that Maimane is expected to get a tongue lashing from Renwick. It is believed that Renwick will put Maimane in his place and remind him who the real leader of the DA is. Renwick is expected to run the riot act by the black leader including taking him on regarding the low voter base from the black community in South Africa. Renwick and other backers of the DA are worried that the party has gone soft on blacks and thereby risk losing its white racist base. The utterances of Zille do not appear to be spontaneous but rather a deliberate ploy to assure the racist base that the DA is still an anti-black organisation. Miamane is expected to return with a more reconciliatory attitude towards Zille because he shall have been disciplined by London. The source couldn’t confirm if while in London Maimane had planned to meet the embatted Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan who was recalled from his London tour by President Zuma. London is said to be frantically trying to re-establish white hegemony and cannot afford a divided DA hence the order for Maimane to go to London to get marching orders.