By BO Staff Writer Student Representative Council (SRC) elections are set to begin at the University of Limpopo, Turfloop this week. The elections, which usually happen towards the end of the academic year, got postponed last year because of the #FeesMustFall protests which rocked the university. Three student formations, Black First Land First Student Movement (BLF-SM), Pan Africanist Student Movement of Azania (PASMA) and the Student Union for Christian Action (SUCA) have decided to form a coalition and contest the election under the SUCA banner. The student movement coalition has vowed to lead the institution guided by the revolutionary example of Thomas Sankara, former president of Burkina Faso. The SRC candidates in the coalition will sign a Student Movement Sankara Oath to ensure that they abide by a Sankarist leadership ethos. Part of the oath reads, “I commit myself to help build and promote an efficient education service system that ensures the real and legal dignity and equality of all. As a practical indication of my acknowledgement that the only way to ensure the services that I champion are of an acceptable standard, I hereby undertake to use the services that the education sector provides to the students. What is good for me is good for the students!” The SUCA coalition will be launching its election manifesto under the following details. The election will happen the following day. SUCA SANKARA MANIFESTO A vote for SUCA is a vote for SANKARISM!” #VoteSankara Who is Thomas Sankara? * He captured power and was the president of Burkina Faso from 1983 – 1987. * He sold off the government fleet of Mercedes cars and made the Renault 5 (the cheapest car sold in Burkina Faso at that time) the official service car of the ministers. * He reduced the salaries of all public servants, including his own, and forbade the use of government chauffeurs and 1st class airline tickets. * He refused to use the air conditioning in his office on the grounds that such luxury was not available to anyone but a handful of Burkinabes. * When asked why he didn’t want his portrait hung in public places, as was the norm for other African leaders, Sankara replied “There are seven million Thomas Sankaras.” Where are our Sankarist Leaders at University of Limpopo today? Should we accept iPhones, fancy VIP treatment, housing at “Nkandla” etc? Are leaders servants of students or an elite that live lavishly while looting from SRC budget? If we say President Zuma should not live in Nkandla while the poor black dispossessed suffers, why do our SRC leaders go and live in “Nkandla” when we have no warm water, no wifi & no food? What will the alliance between SUCA, PASMA & BLF-SM bring if you vote SUCA? Come to the launch of our election manifesto to find out. Details below: Time: 6pm
Date: Wednesday, 15 March 2017
Venue: Tiro Hall   You cannot carry out fundamental change without a certain amount of madness. ~ Thomas Sankara