By BO Staff Writer A memorandum dated 17 March 2017 by the Serious Corruption Investigation Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (a component of the HAWKS), indicates damning evidence of corruption and theft of R11 million by the Minister of Finance, Pravin Gordhan, from the Special Pension Fund at the Department of Defence and Military Veterans. The Special Pension Fund evidently excludes public office bearers from benefitting from it. Gordhan, who was a public official at the time of the fund coming into effect, illegally benefited an amount of R11 million from the said fund. It is reported that Gordhan received payment of the millions from the Head of the Pensions Fund, Marion Mbina Mthembu, who is now the DG in the Eastern Cape Premier’s office. Mthembu corroborated this allegation in a meeting with the HAWKS on 15 December 2016 and to this end referred them to Kabelo Jonathan of the Government Pension Administration Agency (GPAA). Black First Land First (BLF) President, Andile Mngxitama, who was reached for comment after the news broke said, “BLF is not surprised by the media reports that Pravin Gordhan may be involved in corruption. Already almost all the banks and corporations he has shares in have been exposed as corrupt entities. He has not resigned his shares. Pravin is happy to enjoy a dividend from corrupt businesses.” BLF has a pending High Court application to declare Gordhan conflicted, compromised and captured by white capital. “BLF is yet again vindicated that Pravin Gordhan is not fit to be Minister of Finance. We call on the Hawks to speed up the investigations and call on Pravin Gordhan to resign if he is a person of integrity. BLF also calls on the President to release Pravin Gordhan from his responsibilities as Minister of Finance with immediate effect,” Mngxitama said. The evidence against Gordhan as indicated in the HAWKS memorandum (which can be downloaded below) suggests that he is criminally liable for his illegal actions. This necessitates that Gordhan be prosecuted to the full extent of the law. Furthermore his criminal anti-people conduct, in itself, makes him not a fit and proper person to hold the office of the Minister of Finance – it requires that he be recalled from that position. It also serves instructive to look at Gordhan’s previous instances of corruption (previously reported in Black Opinion) that clearly suggest a pattern of criminal conduct characterised by him being beholden to white monopoly capital and to this end conflicted and compromised as Minister of Finance. Read the full Hawks memorandum here.