By BO Staff Writer The political situation in South Africa has been forced into two opposing camps – a pro-white monopoly capital camp and the pro-radical economic transformation camp. These camps have two polar opposite ideologies, with the pro-white monopoly capital faction supporting neo-liberal, pro-market capital policies and maintaining the economy in the hands of a white minority. On the other hand, the pro-radical economic transformation faction wants a radical transformation of the economy through expropriation of land without compensation and a transfer of key economic sectors to the hands of the black majority. White monopoly capital is now resorting to violence to thwart the rising resistance from the Black majority and its opponents. In August, after Black First Land First (BLF) President, Andile Mngxitama, was refused entry into the pro-white monopoly capital, Daily Maverick’s The Gathering, he was followed and almost run over by a white VW Polo with a male driver. Last week, the Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s home was thrashed and vandalised by those opposing her report on the ABSA lifeboats. Most recently, the editor of Sunday Independent, Steve Motale has been receiving death threats for exposing the multiple romantic relationships of the Deputy President, Cyril Ramaphosa. In an attempt on his life, gunshots were fired at a car perpetrators thought Motale was in, which belongs to businessman and pro-radical economic transformation supporter of Motale, Kenny Kunene. No one was injured in the shoot out. Motale was luckily in a different car when the incident occured. If it would be investigated, it would appear that more proradical economic transformation proponents have received death threats and violence from white monopoly capital. The attack on Motale leaves one to question how the South African National Editors Forum (SANEF) will react to the violence meted out on a journalist of Motale’s stature. SANEF, has taken BLF to court for ‘intimidating’ journalists, but has said nothing about real intimidation and violence against Motale. This shows that SANEF is a running dog of imperialism and white monopoly capital. As the war against white monopoly capital intensifies, its agents will fight back stronger and in more evil ways, as demostrated by the attack on Kenny Kunene and Steve Motale.     