By BO Staff Writer The following statement was first published on the BLF website on 15 September 2017:  The leadership of the Kimberley Artisanal Mine Workers (KAMW), being Lucky Seekoeie, Victor Taku, Elisa Louw and others are currently in the Northern Cape High Court for an urgent application brought against their movement by De Beers Consolidated Mines (Pty) Ltd (De Beers). De Beers is seeking an interdict against KAMW to, amongst other things, restrain them from mining in Kimberley. The mining community including members of KAMW and the Mining Affected Communities United in Action (Macua) are outraged at De Beers’ anti blacks action. They are currently assembled outside the High Court in solidarity with KAMW and are calling upon the Court to dismiss the interdict sought by the white monopolistic mining house, De Beers who in the first place do not have rights to the land being mined neither do they have any mining rights. This is a classical case of white racism, where the victims who are black are branded as criminals while the white mining house, who is the real criminal is portrayed as the victim. KAMW, who currently comprise of a significant number of members who are also BLF members, have decided to fight to the end until their demands relating to the decolonization and deracialisation of mining are met. To this end the urgent intervention of the Minister of Mining and Mineral Resources, Mosebenzi Zwane, is needed. BLF will be seeking the Ministers action in this regard. BLF applauds the resilience of the Zama Zamas in their legitimate struggle against the racist mining houses. We stand with them in their unwavering commitment to seek justice for the artisanal miners which includes an end to all evictions, interdicts on mining, police and private security violence, as well as to be regularized; to get the necessary subsidization; and to be given legal recognition for operations over the floors. We agree with their resolve that irrespective of any Court order or any other action to remove them from their land and the right to a livelihood, they are staying put in Kimberley because all the land in South Africa, including the minerals that is part of it, belongs to black people and not to the white criminal mining houses. This Saturday, BLF President Andile Mngxitama will be addressing the mining communities of Kimberley on a way forward in honor of Steve Biko who was killed by the apartheid regime while in detention 40 years ago on 12 September. Biko’s black consciousness will be invoked to pave the way towards the institutional destruction of racialised and colonized mining. The event will take place under the following details: Date: 16 September 2017
Time: starts 12 PM
Venue: Samaria, Bosheff Street, Kimberely You are invited! Land or Death!
Izwelethu! Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 15 September 2017 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Deputy National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664