By BO Staff Writer The following article was previously published on the BLF website on 8 September 2017 and is now reissued by Black Opinion: Black First Land First (BLF) notes that the imperialist, racist, rating agency, Moody’s, has come out against Radical Economic Transformation. Moody’s is the economic hitman of imperialism to terrorise nations from serving their own people. It is sheer nonsense that, as Moody’s claims, radical economic transformation would be bad for South Africa. It is also not true that radical economic transformation would be bad for the economy. As we speak, South Africa is getting out of a technical recession and the currency itself has been protected ever since the Competition Commission found banks to have been illegally manipulating the currency, and as a consequence, the rand has strengthened. Now Moody’s, realising its plans together with former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and other agents of imperialism to sabotage the economy is not working, is now instigating a new panick against radical economic transformation. BLF is very clear that black people have suffered permanent economic exclusion and therefore the solution to this is radical economic transformation. Moody’s has come out clear against land expropriation without compensation, the mining charter & preferred pro-black procurement policies. Moody’s is an agent of white monopoly capital and it wants to maintain the status quo. We call on our government to pay whatever monies owed to Moody’s and other such rating agencies and ask them to leave the country alone. BLF is clear, we say to hell with Moody’s!Moody’s get out of South Africa! Get out of our affairs! We want land now and we are going to take it! #LandOrDeath ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT (BLF NCC) 8 September 2017 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Deputy National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664