By BO Staff Writer Public Protector (PP), Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s home has been vandalised by what it seems are her detractors. The PP’s spokesperson, Cleopatra Mosana, told ANN7 that the PP was receiving threats after she released a report implicating ABSA and other white owned companies in maladministration and corruption. “These threats have been coming in following the recent release of the report of the CIEX matter into allegations of maladministration into Absa and it has been continuing where people have been sending threatening messages to the public protector,” Mosana said. “Yesterday when she came back from an event she was informed that there was malicious damage to her property complex and there is also an allegation of racism in the compound she is staying on because as the police are investigating the matter it doesn’t seem as if there was forced entry in accessing her property.” Mkhwebane was not at home at the time of the incident. Police are investigating the incident. After the release of the report, there has been a mounting attack on the PP from the white owned media and supporters of white monopoly capital. The white establishment sees Mkhwebane as a threat to its stranglehold of the country and economy. Mkhwebane’s predecessor, Thuli Madonsela was a darling of the white media and white monopoly capital – she never received such violent criticism, instead she was rewarded with a job at Stellenbosch University where Johann Rupert is the Chancellor. In her report on apartheid corruption, Mkhwebane said that ABSA bank must pay back R3.2 million which it looted from the Reserve Bank. The attack on Mkhwebane’s home shows the extent white monopoly capital will go to to protect and maintain the status quo. Reacting to the news BLF President, Andile Mngxitama, said that the vandalism can be linked to Mkhwebane’s crack down on white corruption and the fact that former finance ministers, Pravin Gordhan and Trevor Manuel are implicated in crimes by white companies. “Absa has been found to have been involved in corruption. What the nation must remember is that in all of these banks [implicated in corruption] Pravin Gordhan has direct shares in those banks. So all the major organised criminal activity going on in the interest of white monopoly capital, the name of Pravin Gordhan is not very far from it”, Mngxitama said.  