By BO Staff Writer Basetsana Sekete, BLF West Rand Regional woman leader, as well as other BLF members were reportedly brutally attacked yesterday during a membership recruitment campaign that was conducted by the movement in Mohlakeng Extension 4 in Randfontein. The article titled “BLF West Rand secretary attacked by EFF”, which was published earlier today in the BLF website – and which, amongst other things, condemns the violence and calls on Julius Malema to demonstrate true leadership in the circumstances of the incident – is republished below by Black Opinion: The Regional Secretary of Black First Land First (BLF) in the West Rand and other BLF members were attacked by Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) members in the afternoon of yesterday, 1 September 2017. The BLF members and Regional Secretary, Comrade Basetsana Sekete, were severely assaulted and had to be rushed to Leratong Hostpital. The attack occurred at around 15:00 PM. BLF members led by the Regional Secretary were engaging in a door to door recruitment drive in Extension 4 when the incident happened. As they were speaking to a person interested in the BLF, EFF members began violently intimidating them. More than 5 males in EFF regalia perpetrated the violence. The EFF members declared that Extension 4 was their (EFF’s) territory and that BLF is not allowed in the area. BLF members naturally disputed this view that shows a lack of understanding the need for political tolerance. Such acts are also illegal. EFF members have no compunction to assault women, yet their organization claims to fight for women’s rights. We wait to see the outrage from EFF feminists who have historically proven to be selective feminists. This attack by EFF on BLF members shows that our movement is a threat to the reactionary agenda of London. EFF is being disrespected by Helen Zille every day in their coalition in service of white monopoly capital. EFF never shows any aggression towards land thieves but is too quick to attack blacks. BLF is opposed to any form of black on black violence. We call upon EFF leader, Julius Malema, to publicly denounce the attack on BLF members by members of his party. It’s the duty of leadership to guide members. Furthermore, BLF calls on Malema to apologise to our members and organisation for these attacks. A criminal case will be opened against the EFF thugs. Furthermore, the matter will be reported to the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC). Attacks on political opponents is contrary to the law. Also a letter will be sent to Parliament to take action against EFF. Political intolerance must not be tolerated. BLF shall continue to organise and build structures on the ground everywhere in our country and continent. We are a growing movement that is seen by our people as the alternative to the political parties of our country that are captured by white monopoly capital. BLF calls for political tolerance in South Africa. The President of BLF, Comrade Mngxitama, will visit the BLF comrades today in West Rand. Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 2 September 2017 Black First Land First Email: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Deputy National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664