By BO Staff Writer The following article was previously published on the BLF website on 15 September 2017 and is now reissued by Black Opinion: BLF is outraged by the offensive and racist comments by one of the most corrupt white monopoly capitalist, Johann Rupert. This beneficiary of apartheid and colonialism has come out against the Radical Economic Transformation (RET) by President Jacob Zuma and called it “theft”. Rupert is an economic terrorist who is rallying the whole of white monopoly capital (WMC) to attack the economy so as to stop transformation. Johann Rupert and a few other white monopoly capitalists want to keep the South African economy in their hands. The attack on RET is racist because it equates transformation to a crime. This is because white racists believe that blacks are criminals. Racism is irrational and baseless. The accusation by Rupert that RET is theft, is in the same category as other racist acts. BLF is aware that there is a massive drive towards economic sabotage to effect regime change. Johann Rupert and the rest of the white monopoly capitalists are I nvolved in economic terrorism. They want the people to suffer even more and thereby cause political stability in the country which they hope will cause the people to them against the government to remove President Zuma. Already the mining sector under the political directive by Johann Rupert is retrenching workers. BLF is going to take the following actions against Johann Rupert: 1. Open a case of racism at the Equality Court.
2. Lay a criminal case of High Treason.
3. Undertake mass action at Ramgro Headquarters in Stellenbosch.
4. Call on the police to fast track the corruption case that BLF opened against him for stealing from the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) in excess of R2 billion.
5. Follow up on the over R60 million debt incurred for services by a municipality in Mpumalanga. Rupert must pay! All these actions will be taken urgently! BLF is also aware that Johann Rupert has moved billions of rands to Europe. This may possibly be part of the annual R60 billion illegal movement of capital outside South Africa. BLF will investigate this as well. Land or Death! Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC) 15 September 2017 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(Deputy President)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Deputy National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664  