By BO Staff WriterThe African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) in eThekwini says Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa must report criminal conduct associated with the buying of votes for the upcoming ANC national conference, to the HAWKS, otherwise he risks criminal charges being laid against him. While addressing a Chris Hani memorial lecture in the Eastern Cape province yesterday, Ramaphosa remarked that there are people &#8220;who carry brown envelopes, full of money to buy votes&#8221; for the ANC&#8217;s upcoming national conference. The youth wing of the ruling party fired back at Ramaphosa, saying if he knew of any such acts, he must swiftly report them to the HAWKS under the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act. &#8220;We certainly hope Mr Ramaphosa will find time to forward this information because failure to do so in terms of the provisions of the law may attract criminal charges against him,&#8221; the League said in a statement. Ramaphosa&#8217;s utterances at the lecture were seen by many as the official launch of his campaign for the ANC&#8217;s presidency. The deputy president is also largely seen as a pro-West stooge which Western imperialism wants as president instead of Jacob Zuma so it can continue looting South Africa freely. True to this characterisation, Ramaphosa launched an attack on Zuma, dubbing him a corrupt leader and unfit to run the country. Ramaphosa entered the hall of the memorial lectured with ex-Deputy Finance Minister, Mcebisi Jonas, whom Zuma fired because of his allegiances with white monopoly capital.Read the full ANC Youth League statement below: For Immediate Release 24 April 2017 ANCYL REFERS RAMAPHOSA TO THE HAWKS The African National Congress Youth League eThekwini has noted allegations of criminal activity contained in the remarks by the Deputy President of the ANC and the Republic Mr. Cyril Ramaphosa. The Youth League understands that Mr. Ramaphosa in his political speech over the weekend made the allegation that there are people that carry brown envelopes full of cash going around buying votes for the upcoming national conference of the ANC. The Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act 12 of 2004 creates a duty for those in positions of authority like that of Mr. Ramaphosa, who know of any wrongdoing to report such to a police official. The South Africa Police Services Act 10 of 2012 further directs that such reporting be done to the Directorate for Priority Crime investigation commonly known as the Hawks. The ANC Youth League calls upon the hawks to immediately make themselves available to Mr. Ramaphosa in order for this critical piece of information to be with the authorities for investigation and possible arrest. We certainly hope Mr Ramaphosa will find time to forward this information because failure to do so in terms of the provisions of the law may attract criminal charges against him. The ANC Youth League regards these allegations as serious and believes that no one including Mr Ramaphosa will use knowledge of such for political expedience. The law must be seen to be upheld as per the oath of office taken by all those in official positions. Issued by African National Congress Youth League, eThekwini Region For enquiries contact Cde Thinta Cibane, Regional Secretary 0762228115 Cde Thulisa Ndlela , Regional Spokesperson 0767846194