By BO Staff WriterThe Black First Land First (BLF) movement has rejected the coup planned to remove President Jacob Zuma by Save SA, Democratic Alliance (DA), Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and other racist white civil society NGOs, and is instead picketing outside the homes of former Finance Minister, Pravin Gordhan.The movement says it wants Gordhan to &#8220;stop mobilizing for counter revolution, confess to all the corruption he did as Minister of Finance, expose his London based handlers&#8221; amongst other demands.Read the BLF&#8217;s full statement below:Black First Land First (BLF) will today start protest actions against the coup plotters who want to remove President Zuma in order to install a puppet president who will continue with apartheid and colonialism. They want President Zuma gone because he has called for land to be returned and for and black people to unite.Pravin Gordhan is the corrupt former Miniser of Finance who, together with the ratings agencies, wants to create further economic hardship for our people so that hunger will make us fight each other while the whites continue to own South Africa. To this end, there is a clear plan hatched in London to change the government in South Africa like the way regime change was effected in Brazil. In this respect, Pravin Gordhan has sold his soul to the imperialist forces.We say no to the coup! We say no to colonialism by the criminal ratings agencies.BLF calls on Pravin Gordhan to do the following:1. Stop mobilizing for counter revolution2. Confess to all the corruption he did as Minister of Finance3. Expose his London based handlers4. Tell the nation about his plot with Johann Rupert and British imperialism to overthrow the South African government5. Tell the truth as to why he protected banks that stole from the South African Reserve Bank like ABSA6. Stop the plans for black on black violence7. Tell the nation why he gave his daughter, Anisha Gordhan, a R10 million contract from TreasuryBLF shall today hold peaceful pickets at both the houses of Pravin Gordhan in Pretoria and in Johannesburg.Next week, BLF shall picket the houses of Trevor Manuel and the office of the Moody s ratings agency.BLF says Hands Off President Zuma we want LAND now!Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee (BLF NCC)7 April 2017Contact detailsBlack First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Facebook: Black First Land First | Twitter: @black1stland1st Website: www.blf.org.zaZanele Lwana (National Spokesperson) Cell: +27 79 486 9087Lindsay Maasdorp (National Spokesperson) Cell: +27 79 915 2957Brian Tloubatla (Deputy National Spokesperson) Cell: +27 82 216 7664