By BO Staff Writer The Black Consciousness movement, Black First Land First (BLF) has come out gunsblazing against coup plotters, veiled as civil society groups and opposition parties. The movement said it rejected calls for a national shutdown on Friday. “The Friday shut down is an attempt by the ratings agencies, together with the opposition parties and some ANC leaders who are bought by white capital, to instigate black on black violence to create a social crisis which would be used as a pretext to remove President Zuma and replace him with a London stooge like Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa,” the movement said in a statement on Wednesday. A campaign surfaced on social media over the weekend, calling on South Africans to take part in a national shutdown on April 7, in protest against the cabinet reshuffle and the sacking of Pravin Gordhan as finance minister. Read BLF’s full statement below: Black First Land First (BLF) calls on black people of South Africa not to be misled by the racist agenda of Helen Zille and the other opposition parties who want to shut down the country on Friday. The call to shut down is a plan hatched from London by the same agents of imperialism who want blacks to remain poor and landless in their own country. Former Finance Minister, Pravin Gordhan, had to be recalled from London. Mmusi Maimane was also in London recently and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) have a direct relationship with Lord Robin Renwick. The Save South Africa (Save SA) campaign is a program of racist whites who don’t want to share the wealth of the country with black people. Trade unionist Zwelinzima Vavi is a mere puppet of whites. We call on our people to reject the shut down on Friday. The opposition parties have failed to use the mechanism available to them if they feel the President acted wrongly or unlawfully when he reshuffled. They could go to court, but the court has already ruled against them. Alternatively they could go to parliament, but again, their motion to recall president Zuma previously failed. Now they want to use violence to get what they want. The opposition parties, working together with the ratings agencies, wants a coup in South Africa. They want to remove President Zuma by undemocratic means. They hate President Zuma because he says blacks must unite and take back the land. African National Congress (ANC) leaders like Gordhan, Derek Hanekom, Jackson Mthembu, and Trevor Manuel, do not want blacks to own land and the economy. They are agents of white monopoly capital and work together with the opposition who are all controlled from London and are doing the dirty work of white capitalists like Johann Rupert. The Friday shut down is an attempt by the ratings agencies, together with the opposition parties and some ANC leaders who are bought by white capital, to instigate black on black violence to create a social crisis which would be used as a pretext to remove President Zuma and replace him with a London stooge like Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. They used this strategy with success in Brazil. The modus operandi of imperialism to illegally remove presidents they don’t like is generally as follows: 1. Economic Terrorism – Downgrade country to junk status.
2. Organise and fund civil society/NGOs
3. Use their media to falsely accuse the president of wrong doings.
4. Organise mass action and violence.
5. Buy members of parliament to impeach the President. In South Africa today, all these mechanisms are in place. The media is in the forefront spreading lies that President Zuma has reshuffled cabinet for the Guptas. White media and the London controlled opposition parties using the white owned media, have been selling the propaganda that the problem in South Africa is not white monopoly capital which stole the land of black people but President Zuma and the Guptas. This is a clever trick to remove focus from white settler monopoly which stole our land and kept us in poverty. Many people today hate the Guptas, but if you can ask them why, they have no factual basis. Most people are victims of white media propaganda. The stage South Africa is in now in terms of the plan for regime change is the use of ratings agencies and attempts at having mass uprisings to instigate a civil war amongst blacks. The Democratic Alliance (DA) is sending its black members to Luthuli House with the hope that there shall be violence amongst blacks which can get out of hand to give them the pretext to remove President Zuma. The EFF is similarly expected to assist in creating this black on black violence to rescue white capital. BLF calls on our people to reject the provocation to create war amongst blacks. BLF calls on our people, even those in the opposition parties, to distance themselves from coup plotters. We call on our people to unite behind the call for land return by President Zuma. We must now ask whites who are busy with organizing a country shut down: When are you returning our land? Land first before any talk of shutting the country down. Whites have no moral authority to shut down the country. They must first ask for forgiveness for colonialism and apartheid. Whites must give us our land first. The shut down by whites is an act of war and we must respond accordingly. Any white person organizing the shut down and black on black violence is a combatant in war, therefore a legitimate target of black rage. BLF will be taking both legal and protest action against the evil rating agencies. We call on our people do not be used by whites and their agents like Pravin Gordhan! We call on our people to reject the Friday action organised by white monopoly capital and ratings agencies.
We call on all blacks to observe the principle of “peace amongst blacks, war to the enemy”. Say no to the coup! Say yes to land! Hands Off President Zuma ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT 5 April 2017 Contact Details Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 486 9087 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Deputy National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664