By BO Staff Writer United States sponsored anti-government protests, similar to the Save SA and opposition party protests in South Africa, have flared up in Venezuela with the aim of removing the democratically elected president, Nicolas Maduro. Bolivia’s Evo Morales said the anti-government protests were orchestrated by the US to “overthrow Venezuela to steal oil.” The article below, which was originally published in the teleSUR tv website, explains the protest in Venezuela which have now claimed 22 lives. Within the last three weeks alone, at least 22 people have died amid anti-government protests.
Headlines about ongoing violence in Venezuela are practically inescapable. Within the last three weeks alone, at least 22 people have died amid anti-government protests. Siding with right-wing opposition protesters, mainstream media outlets use titles like “Venezuelan Regime Has Blood On Its Hands” and “Venezuela’s Tiananmen Moment” to deceive readers into believing President Nicolas Maduro and the socialist government are the primary culprits. Some outlets have even gone as far as claiming the violent situation is “a campaign of state genocide.” The reality of the situation on the ground, however, demonstrates that the opposite is true: right-wing protesters are carrying out a campaign of terrorism against the government and the Venezuelan people. In fact, opposition demonstrators are responsible for most of the deaths that have occurred within the last three weeks, a recent teleSUR investigation found. Moreover, several of the reported 22 deaths are still under investigation and/or were not directly related to the protests, further refuting claims that all of those who died were victims of “state genocide.” Here’s a quick breakdown. Yey Amaro, a 37-year-old police officer in the state of Lara, was hit by a vehicle driven by opposition protesters on April 11 after trying to mediate protests in his home state. Kevin Leon, a 30-year-old bakery worker in the El Valle district of Caracas, was shot on April 20 by opposition protesters who were vandalizing his workplace. Ricarda de Lourdes, an 83-year-old woman, died at her home in Caracas on April 10 from hydrocephalus. When her symptoms began flaring earlier that day, she was unable to be transported to a nearby hospital because opposition protesters blocked all of the neighborhood’s roads, preventing ambulances from picking her up. Ramon Martinez, a 29-year-old cook who worked in the same bakery as Kevin Leon, was also shot by opposition protesters on April 20. Brayan Principal, a 13-year-old resident of the Ali Primera Socialist City, was shot by opposition protesters on April 11 after they toppled the main gate of the commune. Paola Ramirez, a 23-year-old college student from Tachira, was shot by members of the right-wing Vente Venezuela opposition party on April 19 over 20 times. Nine opposition protesters were electrocuted on April 20 when they attempted to break into the El Valle bakery that had an electrified gate. Daniel Queliz, a 20-year-old college student from Carabobo, was shot by police on April 10 while participating in an opposition protest. Gruseny Antonio Canelon, a 32-year-old opposition supporter from Lara, died of organ failure on April 13. Opposition groups allege he was shot during an anti-government demonstration two days earlier. Miguel Angel Colmenarez, a 36-year-old old opposition supporter from Lara, was shot on April 12 in unclear circumstances by unidentified assailants on motorbikes nearby a protest. Melvin Guitan, a 26-year-old who worked for a mayor’s office in Sucre, was shot by unidentified gunmen on April 20 during a protest. Oliver Villa Camargo, a 29-year-old digital marketing entrepreneur, was shot by unidentified assailants on motorbikes in Caracas. Carlos Moreno, a 19-year-old student, was shot in the head in Caracas on April 19 by armed robbers who stole his motorcycle. Jairo Ortiz, a 19-year-old student, was shot by transit police officer Rohenluis Leonel Mata in the state of Miranda. Upon proving Ortiz’s lack of criminality, Venezuelan police immediately detained Mata, who is set to face criminal charges.