Black First Land First StatementIt has come to the attention of Black First Land First (BLF) that the civil society arm of white monopoly capital, Save South Africa (Save SA), is spreading lies about our movement. To this end Save SA is circulating a statement on social media, under the name of Johannesburg Against Injustice, which is devoid of any truth. This occurred after BLF had persuaded, through dialogue, a few demonstrators to abandon their misguided action at the South African National Museum of Military History (Military Museum) in Saxonwold yesterday. Some of the Save SA demonstrators made it clear that they didn&#8217;t agree with the demonstration and we&#8217;re in fact paid to protest against a religious event they didn&#8217;t even understand.BLF was asked specifically by the community of Lodium to protect it against what they called &#8220;the hired thugs of Johann Rupert&#8221;. In this regard, BLF was called to assist the community after Johann Rupert&#8217;s thugs had forced some community members out of a bus which was going to the Military Museum where a religious event was to be held.BLF subsequently dealt with the thugs and thus made it possible for the people to attend their religious event.It would seem that the same thugs, or a contingent of this group, were paid to also disrupt the religious event at the Military Museum. When BLF arrived st the museum we found a small group of people shouting and disrespecting a religious sermon. Evidently, white demonstrators were the leaders and organisers of this disruption.BLF believes in &#8220;peace amongst blacks&#8221; as a principle. Informed by this, we engaged the black demonstrators in critical dialogue and upon being enlightenment some joined BLF.Others called a caucus amongst themselves and decided to disperse peacefully. Moreover, many felt that they were misled by whites about the protest and were grateful to BLF for enlightening them.BLF notes the fascism of white monopoly capital, the white owned media, and the white controlled foreign funded civil society organisations. These entities do not respect the rights of those that they have designated as the enemy.Recently we saw the public brutalisation of Africa News Network (ANN7) journalists. This infringement of media freedom was applauded and celebrated by hypocrites like the white controlled and foreign funded Right2Know Campaign, Freedom of Expression Institute (FXI) as well as the Johann Rupert funded South African National Editors Forum (SANEF).Now as the religious rights of the Gupta family are being violated we note the silence of the captured section of the church such as the South African Council of Churches (SACC) and other religious groupings which, like most white controlled civil society entities, are driven by a selective morality in defence of white monopoly capital.It is concerning that religious organizations, across the spectrum, have not spoken out against the denial of religious rights on this matter.In this country, even those convicted of serious crimes are never denied the freedom to religion. Yet, Johann Rupert thinks he can do so with impunity.Blacks have allowed whites to pray in peace despite the fact that their churches have historically colluded with colonialism to steal our land and demonize our religions.We ask today, where was the Save SA campaign and its affiliates when we marched and protested:1. For land expropriation without compensation;2. Against the theft of R26 billion from the South African Reserve Bank by apartheid era white capitalist criminals;3. Against the corruption by the 18 banks (Absa, Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited and 16 others) found to have been involved in collusion by the Competition Commission;4. For ABSA to pay back the money it stole from the South African Reserve Bank;5. For Free Decolonised Education;6. Against the corruption of white monopoly capital of over R563 billion;7. Against the Pravin Gordhan induced corruption at the South African Airways (SAA);8. For a Judicial Commission of Inquiry on Banks;9. For nationalization of the South African Reserve Bank;10. For the criminal prosecution of F.W. De Klerk and Adrian Vlok regarding their involvement in the multiple murders of blacks during the apartheid era; and11. For Lonmin to pay reparations regarding the Marikana massacre.When real issues (like the above) which affect our people are being addressed, outfits such as Save SA and its bogus extensions like the Gujarati Network South Africa and Johannesburg Against Injustice are nowhere to be seen.BLF shall continue to defend and protect anyone who comes under attack from whites. This commitment includes protecting the Gupta family amongst other targets of white monopoly capital and its defenders.Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee (BLF NCC)17 April 2017Contact detailsBlack First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Facebook: Black First Land First | Twitter: @black1stland1st Website: www.blf.org.zaZanele Lwana (National Spokesperson) Cell: +27 79 486 9087Lindsay Maasdorp (National Spokesperson) Cell: +27 79 915 2957Brian Tloubatla (Deputy National Spokesperson) Cell: +27 82 216 7664 Fax: +27 86 401 0451