By BO Staff Writer The African National Congress (ANC) and the African Independent Congress (AIC) have concluded talks and adopted a memorandum of understanding on their coalition partnership, which they had entered into after last year’s local government elections.  The two parties went into coalition in the Ekurhuleni, Rustenburg, Umkhanyakude and “other municipalities where both parties have representation.” The AIC has always had the incorporation of Matatiele into KwaZulu Natal as its main objective. The party put pressure on the ANC and now both parties have agreed to “a roadmap which outlines the proposed constitutional demarcation process to incorporate Matatiele Local Municipality in the Eastern Cape into KwaZulu-Natal province.”  In a joint statement, the parties announced that in addition to the incorporation process of Matatiele, there will be, “the opening of an Agricultural College in Matatiele Adjunct of Maluti. The tarring of all Provincial rural roads with specific reference to the roads connecting Lesotho and South Africa resulting in Matatiele being declared a nodal point.” The AIC has used its coalition partnership to successfully lobby for their demands, which is in total contrast to how the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has sold out its black voters by refusing to enter into a demand-driven coalition with the ANC. Rather, it gave its votes to the racist Democratic Alliance (DA) for free.  The EFF went into coalition talks with the ANC with the impossible demand that its democratically elected president, Jacob Zuma, be removed. The EFF knew the ANC would never agree to this, thus giving them the excuse to partner with white racists as instructed by London.  The AIC was able to make demands in good faith and now it has achieved them. EFF should take notes from the AIC on how to serve its constituency. Read the joint statement of the ANC and the AIC below:  JOINT STATEMENT BY THE ANC AND AIC FOLLOWING MEETING HELD ON THE 24TH APRIL 2017 The African National Congress (ANC) and the African Independent Congress (AIC) met today, 24 April 2017, in pursuance of commitments made when the two parties entered into a coalition agreement following the 2016 Local Government Elections in August 2016. Both parties recognize that their coalition must be informed by the will of the people who gave them the popular democratic mandate in the elections to cooperate in the national interest. The ANC and the AIC have adopted a memorandum of understanding that will regulate the coalition partnership between the two organizations. Both organisations are committed to the creation of a united, non-racial, non-sexist, democratic and prosperous South Africa that delivers services to all. The two organizations have agreed on political cooperation in the national interest with specific reference to Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality, Rustenburg Local Municipality, Umkhanyakude District Municipality and other municipalities where both parties have representation.  The parties have further committed themselves to a roadmap which outlines the proposed constitutional demarcation process to incorporate Matatiele Local Municipality in the Eastern Cape into KwaZulu-Natal province. This roadmap outlines a constitutionally and legally compliant process towards this objective. In addition to the process towards the incorporation of Matatiele into KwaZulu-Natal, the parties have agreed to the roll-out of specific projects which constitute the understanding between the parties and include: The opening of an Agricultural College in Matatiele Adjunct of MalutiThe tarring of all Provincial rural roads with specific reference to the roads connecting Lesotho and South Africa resulting in Matatiele being declared a nodal point These deliverables will be executed in compliance with existing legislation as may be applicable. Issued by
Gwede Mantashe
Secretary General
African National Congress
Enquiries
Khusela Sangoni 072 854 5707 Issued by
Mahlubanzima Jafta
Secretary General
African Independent Congress
Enquiries
Aubrey Mhlongo 072 921 2006