By BO Staff WriterThe man accused by the Hawks of plotting mass assassinations of politicians and prominent South Africans made his first appearance in the Johannesburg Magistrate s Court this morning.Wearing all black and looking calm, the man now known to be Elvis Ramosebudi, allegedly sent letters to wealthy businessmen asking for funding for a coup .In the two letters which Black Opinion has seen, dated 25 October 2016 Ramosebudi details the assassination plot which would be carried out, by his seemingly one man party, Anti-State Capture Death Squad Alliance. In this letter, addressed to mining magnate Nicky Oppenheimer, he claims he wants to stop &#8220;state capture&#8221; by Jacob Zuma and his &#8220;corrupt&#8221; friends, the Guptas.In the second letter, this one addressed to one of the Gupta brothers, Ajay Gupta, Ramosebudi notes how the Guptas have come under attack from white monopoly capital. He says white monopoly capital &#8220;is still a major concern towards our nation.&#8221; This time, he calls his party the Anti-White Monopoly Capitalists Regime.&#8220;It is now in our hands as the Anti-State Capture Death Squad Alliance to request financial assistance and support for the amount of R60-million in order to finance our undercover coup plot mission to assassinate Jacob Zuma and his entire state capture regime the letter to Oppenheimer reads.The full list of those state capturers to be assassinated are:1. Jacob Zuma 2. Ajay Gupta 3. Rajesh Tony Gupta 4. Atul Gupta 5. Varun Gupta 6. Dudu Myeni 7. Des van Rooyen 8. Collen Maine 9. Shaun Abrahams 10. Mosebenzi Zwane 11. Ace Magashule 12. David Mahlobo 13. Duduzani Zuma 14. Tom Moyane 15. Fana Hlongwane 16. Kebby Maphatsoe 17. Brian Molefe 18. Ben Ngubane 19. Anonj SinghOn the other hand, those working for white monopoly capital which he proposed to assassinate are:1. Mcebisi Jonas 2. Thuli Madonsela 3. Vytjie Mentor 4. Themba MasekoRamosebudi seems to know how to play both ends of the stick. He switches colour like a chameleon according to his audience.The Ramosebudi case has left many people confused and dumbfounded. Could it be that his &#8216;coup&#8217; plan was just a way for a man who has observed the dynamics of politics in South Africa today, to extort money out of the richest players in the game? Ramosebudi revealed in court that he is unemployed and living with his mother in Soshanguve. Equipped with a computer and internet, maybe Ramosebudi got caught in a R140 million scam which played on the paranoia of the elite?In court, the state argued that it wanted Ramosebudi taken in for psychiatric evaluation. &#8220;It s not normal for a person to commit such an offence using his own personal bank account and going around to companies, the state prosecutor said. When asked if he had ever been admitted to a mental institution, Ramosebudi calmly replied, &#8220;I don&#8217;t recall.&#8221; Why would you not recall if you&#8217;d been admitted before? Why would anyone plan a coup alone and solicit funding using their own personal banking details?In a media statement on Wednesday, the Hawks said they arrested Ramosebudi in Midrand while he was meeting with donors and explaining to them how state capture beneficiaries would be assassinated by undercover coup plot snipers . Little to his knowledge, the donors were undercover officers. According to the Hawks, Ramosebudi is a determined man, gauging from the many documents they confiscated in his home. Speaking to the media outside the court, the NPA spokesperson, Phindi Louw, said the case was a matter of national importance and that the NPA was not taking it lightly. &#8220;As the state we believe we have a duty to protect the citizens of this country,&#8221; she said.The Hawks on Wednesday announced the arrest of the 33-year-old man who faces among others charges of conspiracy to commit murder.The case has been postponed to 2 May 2017, where, hopefully, more details of the case will emerge.