By BO Staff Writer Premiere of the Western Cape and leader of the racist Democratic Alliance (DA), Helen Zille, will challenge a charge of racism laid against her at the Equality Court using state resources. Black Opinion has seen court documents stating that Zille has sought the legal help of a state attorney, C van Tonder, to oppose charges of racism laid by Black First Land First (BLF) relating to her colonialism tweets. Last month, Zille tweeted that “For those claiming legacy of colonialism was ONLY negative, think of our independent judiciary, transport infrastructure, piped water etc.” and “Getting onto an aeroplane now and won’t get onto the wi-fi so that I can cut off those who think EVERY aspect of colonial legacy was bad” sparking wide public outrage. For those claiming legacy of colonialism was ONLY negative, think of our independent judiciary, transport infrastructure, piped water etc. — Helen Zille (@helenzille) March 16, 2017  Getting onto an aeroplane now and won’t get onto the wi-fi so that I can cut off those who think EVERY aspect of colonial legacy was bad. — Helen Zille (@helenzille) March 16, 2017  BLF said it was appalled that Zille was using tax payers money to “defend and promote racism.” In a statement released yesterday, the movement said Zille was unapologetically praising “the same system which was driven by genocide and land theft. Colonialism has no redeeming feature and is a key element of white supremacy.” Helen Zille uses state funds to promote racism  “BLF was shocked to receive notification from state attorneys indicating that Zille will be using state resources to defend her racism. This means it’s the very black people’s money that Zille will use to try to defend the indefensible,” the movement said. A state attorney is a lawyer representing the interests of the state in a legal proceeding. The question then arises, were Zille’s comments about colonialism not being bad, said in the interest of the state? Did she say those comments in her individual capacity, her capacity as DA leader or as Premiere of the Western Cape? Seeing as Zille was using her personal twitter account, why should the state cough up much needed resources to fight her legal battles? The use of state resources in a personal matter amounts to corruption and the abuse of office by Zille. The DA, which claims to be a crusader for a corruption-free government, is being blatantly corrupt. “BLF shall ask the High Court to force Zille to pay the cost of the application herself. No more shall state resources be used to promote racism and corruption,” BLF said. Black Opinion contacted the Premiere’s spokesperson and the State Attorney for comment. Both had not responded to questions sent at the time of publication. Read BLF’s statement of charges against Zille here and Zille’s Notice of Intention to Oppose here.