Dear Save South Africa Our movement is aware that you are paid to organise a imperialist coup in defence of monopoly white capital. Save South Africa is the civil society arm of the evil white monopoly capital. It is funded and led by representatives of the same white monopoly capital. We shall not allow you to keep us in bondage for profits. This letter is to tell you to stop your nonsense now!Save S.A. is a proto-fascist campaign for regime change. You are busy with illegal activities while claiming to uphold the constitution. First, you are openly calling for the toppling of a democratically elected president, Jacob Zuma. You want a stooge like Cyril Ramaphosa to replace him. As if that is not enough your agents have been attacking journalists who are exposing your rot. You are all quiet and secretly cheering on those who are attacking media freedom, yet you claim to be defenders of the constitution. You have not said a word about the corruption of white monopoly capital as exposed by the Competition Commission. The banks continue to operate as criminal gangs. You haven&#8217;t organized even a picket of three people against ABSA, even as the public protector report shows that ABSA must pay back the money and yet you claim to be crusaders against corruption.Now you have crossed even the sacred space of prayer. You have long violated the right to privacy of the Gupta family. Because they are your enemies, you treat them as a people without rights. For your enemies there is no separation of the public and the private. You have usurped the right to determine even the domicile of your competition. Let&#8217;s remind you. Whites are the foreigners in S.A. and have no moral authority to tell anyone to leave S.A. We need to remind Save S.A. that whites have stolen our land and organised and carried out massacres and genocides against us. Whites have not repented and asked for forgiveness and return the land. Yet we let them pray in peace and let their families enjoy the privacy of home when we the real owners of this country are homeless. We have allowed evil men like Johann Rupert, FW de Klerk, Eugene de Kock, Dr Wouter Bassoon the right to pray despite their hienous crimes against us. Why does Save S.A. think the Guptas have no right to pray in peace?BLF is aware of both the names of the above ground leaders of Save S.A. but also the covert leaders and funders including the following: Simpiwe Tshabalala CEO Standard Bank Adrian Enthoven Executive Chairman of Yellowwoods chairman of Hollard Insurance Group Isaac Shongwe Non-Executive Director Letsema Consulting &#038; Advisory Mark Lamberti CEO Imperial Holdings Jacques Celliers CEO FNB Roger Baxter &#8211; CEO Chamber of Mines Nicola Galombik Executive Director Yellowwoods Mike Brown &#8211; CEO Nedbank Stanley Subramoney CEO Menston Holdings Geoff Rothschild CEO Mediclinic Tanya Cohen Director of the Retail Association Bridgitte Backman &#8211; Director for Corporate and Regulatory Affairs Distell Ralph Mupita CEO Old Mutual Emerging Markets Stephen Koseff &#8211; CEO Investec David Fine Senior Partner McKinsey Michael Katz Chairman ENSafrica Adrian Gore CEO Discovery Martin Kingston &#8211; CEO Rothschild Maria Ramos &#8211; CEO Barclays Africa Group Lisa Klein Interim CEO SME Fund of the CEO Initiative Harry Groenewald Senior Executive Finance and Administration Chamber of Mines Donald Dinnie Managing Director Norton Rose Fullbright Robert Legh Chairman and Senior Partner Bowmans Mxolisi Mgojo CEO Exxaro Charles Bromley CEO PG Group Chris Venter CEO Afgri Colin Coleman Managing Director and Partner Goldman Sachs Roger Jardine CEO Primedia Ravi Pillay Corporate Affairs Director Nestle South Africa Jabu Mabuza &#8211; Chairman Telkom Adam Craker Head of IQ Business Group Cassim Coovadia Managing Director of Banking Association Nic Kohler CEO Hollard Insurance Nicky Newton-King &#8211; CEO JSEBlack First Land First (BLF) calls on Save S.A. overt and covert leaders and funders to stop with the harrasment of their opponents or we shall undertake peaceful and legal on-going protest at their own private homes. We warn you now so that you warn your families that a peaceful, non-stop protest will be organised in your own homes if you don&#8217;t stop with this brazen disrespect of the rights of others.Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee (BLF NCC)19 April 2017Contact detailsBlack First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Facebook: Black First Land First | Twitter: @black1stland1st Website: www.blf.org.zaZanele Lwana (National Spokesperson) Cell: +27 79 986 7225Lindsay Maasdorp (National Spokesperson) Cell: +27 79 915 2957Brian Tloubatla (Deputy National Spokesperson) Cell: +27 82 216 7664