By BO Staff Writer Department of Social Development spokesperson, Lumka Oliphant, penned a fiery Facebook post defending the department minister, Bathabile Dlamini, after news reports from local papers said the minister addressed a crowd “allegedly drunk”. In the Facebook post, written in both English and isiXhosa, Oliphant states that the allegations against Dlamini are false and that the minister actually despises alcohol. “If it were all up to her, South Africa would not be drinking, there would be no [alcohol] advertising,” Oliphant said. The story in question says Dlamini was allegedly “unsteady on her feet” and cites that as evidence of drunkeness. The story has no eyewitnesses except for a few unnamed sources. The story is littered with only allegations and no facts. Dlamini is being ridiculed by white media not because of her work ethic (or lack thereof) but because of how she looks – because she “appears” drunk. Memes of Dlamini have been shared on social media for the amusement of onlookers and opposition parties, but no one has ever breathalised  Dlamini to see if she has been drunk in public appearances or not. White supremacist, manufactured news at their best. FAKE NEWS: Citizen’s report on Bathabile Dlamini typical example of manufactured NEWS  Read the full post (with translations – where possible) below: “Makunyiwe….Clarity I have been quiet on all the comments on my boss, Minister of Social Development and President of the ANCWL, Bathabile Dlamini. Yes, she is my boss. I have been quiet because I know myself, andiphekekanga ncam. I can tear apart someone and take a Facebook or Twitter conversation to the streets. Ndingumntu wetshatshalaza umthetho wam so ndonqena ukuba krwada (I am a person of the streets but I’m scared of being too vulgar). It has also become fashionable that when we talk about what we know about any leader who may be unpopular, we are accused of dancing for our food. So today, allow me to dance for my food. Above all allow me to be vulgar. Anyone of you who wish to use this post for your articles, go the fuck ahead! Yes, the fuck ahead. Let me just tell you about the Bathabile Dlamini I know and her attitude towards alcohol. Akabufuni (she hates it). Akabuseli (she doesn’t drink). If it were all up to her, South Africa would not be drinking, there would be no advertising. Akabufuni (she doesn’t want it). So okukunya nihlala nikuthetha, nikubhala, is just that – kukunya! (So the shit you keep on writing, saying, is just that, shit!) Heard me? Understood me? Kukunya! (it’s shit) There I said it. One more thing I must tell you, you can say whatever you want to say on her politics when you do not agree with her, I do not mind. I do not care. It is part of the game. But don’t talk shit about her. Just know that from today on, I have decided to take this alcohol matter to the gutter where you have taken it. Ukuba uthe uBathabile uyasela, ndithi mna ngunyoko lowo isfebe selali! (If you said Bathabile is a drunkard, then you’re referring your mother, the village bitch!) Uyakwazi ukumbona umntu onxilileyo ngoba umazela kunyoko! (if you can identify a drunk person then you know it from your mother.) And all of you who know her, your silence is deafening! Masiyeni ke etshatshalazeni abazivayo! (Let’s meet in the streets, to those who feel up to it.) Yours truly
Lumka Oliphant   “