By BO Staff WriterThe Black First Land First (BLF) movement has responded calmly to a slew of insults from Economic Freedom Fighters leader, Julius Malema at a press briefing held in EFF Headquarters, Braamfontein, today.BLF leader, Andile Mngxitama, had asked Malema and his party to put &#8220;petty differences aside&#8221; and join the movement in picketing at Absa branches across the country to force the bank to pay back money they allegedly stole from the South African Reserve Bank (SARB).Mngxitama calls for unity with Malema to occupy AbsaMalema responded via a press conference, and said that the #OccupyAbsa movement was a ploy to distract people from the Guptas and Zuma. He said EFF would be occupying ABSA at their own time.Although he didn&#8217;t name Mngxitama or BLF, Malema&#8217;s comments were obviously targeted at them, even declaring them his &#8220;enemies&#8221;. Malema went further to say he received advice for the EFF to occupy ABSA after the repo rate announcement. A far cry from his previous assertions in 2015 where he said the party would occupy ABSA the following year, 2016.Read BLF&#8217;s full statement below:The British colonial masters have failed to destroy the Zimbabwean chimurenga, which has led to the liberation of Zimbabwe and return of land to her people under the leadership of president Robert Mugabe. Now, the new attempts of regime change for the recolonisation of Zimbabwe are made from South Africa by the agents of London. We say, hands off President Robert Mugabe! Only the people of Zimbabwe shall remove their president through popular will.The call by EFF leader, Juluis Malema, to remove President Mugabe is an instruction from their London handler, Lord Robin Renwick. Malema changed his tune on Mugabe after meeting Renwick and others under the secret rules at Chatham house in October 2015.It must be remembered that in February of the same year, Malema had been calling President Mugabe an African hero.BLF recognises the ongoing economic terrorism against the people of Zimbabwe as punishment for taking back their land. BLF shall be sending a delegation to the Zimbabwean liberation day commemoration on the 18 of April 2017. We draw inspiration in the resilience of the people of Zimbabwe and the uncompromising leadership of President Mugabe. We shall learn from the whole experience of the Zimbabwean land struggle. Its challenges and its successes.BLF notes the shocking and unwarranted attacks on the public protector by Malema. The only sin of advocate Mkhwebane is that she dared to hold white monopoly capital accountable. What angered Malema the most is the leaked report of the Public Protector which calls on ABSA to pay back the money stolen from the South African Reserve Bank (SARB). Malema has become the bulldog of white capital and accuses any one who fights against white capital as an agent of the Guptas. The attack on the public protector is calculated to divert attention from ABSA so that it continues to benefit from the unlawful life boats .Last week BLF called on Malema to forget Renwick and Johann Rupert and join the call to occupy ABSA and demand it pays back the money. This is a revolutionary call for unity in action.Again, Malema chooses to hide behind the Guptas, using irrational logic that he is the first to make the call and then he says the call to occupy ABSA is a Gupta call. What s clear is that everyone who is for decolonisation is labelled a Gupta agent.It would seem that Malema does not want to upset London and Johann Rupert hence dodging any confrontation with ABSA. Malema even said EFF would occupy ABSA the dda after the announcement of the repo rate. How many repo rate announcements have come and gone since 2015?It seems every insult would not be spared to avoid doing what he said he would do in 2015.The most bizarre, yet revealing, attacks were the insults against State Security Minister, David Mahlobo. Malema is angry at Mahlobo because he allegedly had been gathering intelligence on Rupert.Before Malema went to London he called Rupert the Stellenbosch mafia , post-London he s angry that the intelligence forces may have been working to get evidence of wrong doing. Malema has become a blatant bulldog of Johann Rupert. What is clear is that Malema shall do everything to avoid forcing ABSA and other segments of white monopoly capital to account.Perhaps the more illogical thing he said trying to cover up for selling out is that he will give whites power to defeat the ANC and then after it shall be easy to defeat whites. This thinking shows massive historical amnesia. Malema doesn t know whites oppressed the black majority for over 350 years. How can he say it would be easy to defeat them? This is self delusion to hide cowardice.BLF applauds the public protector for her work and honours president Mugabe for his visionary leadership which has liberated Zimbabwe from British colonialism.We call on our people to focus on the prize and unite to defeat settler white monopoly capital.BLF is calling for a national picket on Saturday, 28 January 2017 on ABSA outlets and branches. This is a first of many actions to be undertaken to ensure ABSA pays back the money.