By BO Staff Writer

The following reflections were accessed from the Facebook timeline of Andile Mngxitama on 31 December 2016. This has been republished here with the permission of the author. One of the biggest occasions of 2016 for our movement,  Black First Land First (BLF), was the adoption of the campaign “Hands Off Zuma – Economic Liberation Now!” Many comrades and friends who generally support our struggle have been left confused, disappointed and even hurt. I still meet friends who say, “but Zuma?” We have explained ourselves over and over again and we shall continue to do so in 2017. We are satisfied that in the face of imperialism and white settler monopoly capitalist aggression against President Zuma we, as anti-imperialists and black consciousness adherents,  had to take a position. No black person (sellouts and non-whites included) would be left to be molested by whites. Why BLF Calls for Hands Off Zuma and demands Economic Liberation Now!  BLF has now elevated into a principle the notion of “peace amongst blacks”. We have explained that this doesn’t mean not demanding accountability  from fellow blacks. It only means that we shall do nothing to aid the white agenda. That’s why we remain flabbergasted by the notion of giving political power to whites in the name of “humbling” the ANC. I’m personally aware of comrades and friends who are genuinely confused by our position. We shall continue to engage them patiently. What we hope from such people is critical engagement. It is only informed critique that helps clarify positions. Then there are people who will never agree with us irrespective of what we do or say. We aren’t going to waste our precious time with such people irrespective of the fact that they claim to be black consciousness like ourselves.  I do appreciate the fact that the revolutionary process does at times require massive “psychological leaps” and it’s not everyone who can positively respond to such calls. On our part, we shall continue to take risky and daring positions as long as our black consciousness demands it, 2017 is not going to be different. We have our eyes on white settler monopoly capital and imperialism.  Johann Rupert is not going to rest in 2017. Hotep! Andile Mngxitama is the National Convener of Black First Land First 