Media Statement Black First Land First (BLF) calls on former President Thabo Mbeki, former Finance Minister Trevor Manuel and former Governor of the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) Tito Mboweni to apologize to the nation for failing to protect national assets. The three politicians were entrusted by the nation, by virtue of their positions at the time, to be guardians of and to safeguard the wealth of the nation. The leaked report of the Public Protector on the investigation of the “life boats” to Bankcorp confirms that the three had unethically and possibly illegally protected white capital from paying back the R26 billion stolen from the SARB. Mbeki, Manuel and Mboweni are on record for saying that while they knew and accepted that ABSA amongst others had unduly benefited from the illegal activities surrounding the “life boats” saga, they didn’t take action because they had decided that such action would negatively affect the banking system and consequently the economy. Such reasoning is not just irrational but served to abate the institution of the necessary criminal actions. To this end the conduct of the said three people must be condemned by all those who are ethical and genuinely against corruption. Mbeki, Manuel and Mboweni must apologize to the nation for such faulty reasoning or confess that they were merely defending the interests of white settler monopoly capital. The rationale for this call by BLF is made urgent by the public announcement of Billy Masetlha, the former Head of the South African National Intelligence Agency, that he was misled by the trio into not pursuing the ABSA billions. This is a genuine admission by a civil servant who took his responsibilities seriously. It’s our hope that Mbeki, Manuel and Mboweni shall now follow suit. They must admit the error of their judgement and implore ABSA to stop wasting time and pay back the money. BLF is aware that the trio had all along been aware of the contents of the CIEX report which implicates numerous banking entities and other businesses in unlawful activities. BLF is also aware that amongst the individuals that benefited from these unlawful activities is the businessman, Johann Rupert. This raises serious questions, given the close relationship that the businessman had with some of these three people. BLF says to Mbeki, Manuel and Mboweni, “now is the time to come forward and admit your gross error of judgment that borders on dereliction of your duty. Confess and ask for forgiveness”.  More importantly, BLF calls upon them to encourage all those implicated in the theft of the R26 billion from SARB to forthwith pay back the money. The immediate payment of the stolen billions will save the state resources in the recovery of the said money which in turn is likely to entail lengthy and costly legal processes including a possible Judicial Commission of Inquiry. Should Mbeki, Manuel and Mboweni fail to apologize, the option of pressing criminal charges against them for not acting on information of wrong doing which came to their knowledge shall be utilized. The law is clear about this. BLF looks forward to hearing from the three as they discharge, albeit belatedly, their patriotic duties as leaders of society. Issued by Black First Land First, National Coordinating Committee (BLF NCC) 18 January 2017 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First | Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Thandiswa Yaphi
(Deputy National Coordinator)
Cell: +27 63 107 3163
Mail: thandiyaphi@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 486 9087
Mail: zanelelwana@gmail.com Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957
Mail: lgmaasdorp@hotmail.c­om