By BO Staff WriterThe Black Consciousness movement, Black First Land First (BLF) says President Jacob Zuma must fire Finance Minister, Pravin Gordhan, because he serves white monopoly capital. They accuse him of being &#8220;pro-rich and pro-white!&#8221;In a statement released on Sunday, the movement said the minister was silent on the recent leaked report by the public protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, saying that Absa must pay more than R2 billion for apartheid looting, because the minister has share in Absa.&#8220;The silence of the Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan on the shocking revelations that ABSA must pay back over R2 billion, shows that he is conflicted, compromised and captured by settler white monopoly capital,&#8221; BLF said.The movement also noted a High Court application they lodged against Gordhan last year to have him declared compromised, conflicted and captured . They said the white mainstream media was avoiding reporting on the application because they &#8220;hope that the matter will go away.&#8221;&#8220;Our country cannot afford to have a Minister of Finance who is beholden to white monopoly capital. Right now the country is fighting for economic liberation and to end white monopoly capital s endemic looting. This country needs a Minister who will be pro-poor and pro-black. Pravin Gordhan is pro-rich and pro-white!&#8221;The silence of the Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan on the shocking revelations that ABSA must pay back over R2 billion, shows that he is conflicted, compromised and captured by settler white monopoly capital. The most troubling fact is that the said funds were stolen from the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) which is under his Ministry. Gordhan has proven beyond doubt that his first priority is to defend white monopoly capital, not the national interests. He is not fit to be the Minister of Finance. This position requires a Minister with the capacity to discipline capital.Black First Land First (BLF) notes that the Public Protector has given SARB until 28 February 2017 to respond to her preliminary report which recommends that ABSA pays back the money. BLF has no faith at all in the fact that SARB, under Gordhan, would do anything to assist in the process of recovering the money stolen from the people. When it comes, the response from SARB will be a desperate attempt to cover up for ABSA. SARB has consistently protected white corruption and the looting of white capital. Why would they stop now?On 26 October 2016, BLF lodged a High Court application to have Pravin Gordhan declared compromised, conflicted and captured . Gordhan s lawyers have thus far asked for three postponements to respond to the papers submitted to the High Court by BLF. On the last occasion the request was for an extension until 26 January 2017. BLF eagerly awaits Gordhan s response to its papers.The mainstream media has ignored BLF s High Court application with the hope that the matter will go away.BLF asks the President to remove Gordhan because his business ties to the banking system compromises his ability to serve the nation.It s important to note that Pravin Gordhan has shares in ABSA, the same bank which is facing corruption charges for stealing from SARB which is under his Ministery. So besides the preliminary findings of the Public Protector, there is also a criminal case lodged against the business partners of the Minister of Finance for stealing from Treasury. These factors alone constitute a sufficient basis for the removal of Pravin Gordhan from his responsibilities as Minister of Finance.In a criminal case instituted by BLF, which is currently with the HAWKS, BLF alleges that ABSA and others unlawfully gained from certain so-called life boats . It is further alleged that ABSA, as one of the entities representing white monopoly capital that benefited unduly from the said life boats , has once more unlawfully interfered with the powers of the President to appointment ministers.ABSA stands accused of demanding that the President of the country appoints Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Finance. This begs the question, did ABSA want Gordhan as Minister of Finance so that he could continue to protect it? What makes this scenario worse is the fact that the Minister of Finance derives direct benefit from ABSA through his shareholdings.The fact that Gordhan is captured by white monopoly capital was demonstrated in how he handled the Oakbay bank accounts closure saga. Because Gordhan is conflicted and compromised he was unable to carry out his duties, including failing to attend to a single Inter Ministerial Committee meeting to address the said Oakbay bank accounts saga. This task was a process sanctioned by Cabinet. Instead of doing his work, Gordhan ended up wasting State resources on meaningless court applications based on invented evidence of suspicious transactions by Oakbay. This further shows that Gordhan is an employee of the banks not a servant of the nation.Our country cannot afford to have a Minister of Finance who is beholden to white monopoly capital. Right now the country is fighting for economic liberation and to end white monopoly capital s endemic looting. This country needs a Minister who will be pro-poor and pro-black. Pravin Gordhan is pro-rich and pro-white!BLF is calling on President Zuma to remove Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Finance because he is conflicted, compromised and captured. The country needs his removal!