By BO Staff WriterThe year, 2015. The place, Southern African-German Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Johannesburg.That is the day Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Commander-in-Chief, Julius Malema, went on a rampage and alerted all who cared to listen that EFF would command 3000 fighters to occupy Absa branches if the bank didn&#8217;t practically indicate how it would combat existing inequalities in the country.He lamented that Absa was the &#8220;amalgamated banks of the Broederbond&#8230; who operated during apartheid and stole our money on the eve of democracy.&#8221;&#8220;[W]e have been listening to theory for far too long,&#8221; he said. Now was the time for action.He said that a task team, which would begin working and mobilising for the bank occupations, would begin working the following year, in 2016. 2016 came and went. No occupations. Zero.Instead, the EFF marched peacefully to the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) and handed over a memorandum performing their usual pseudo-radical rhetoric.Fastforward to 2017 and a preliminary report on apartheid looting of state funds by Absa gets leaked. The report by Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane recommends the bank pay back R2.25 billion its corporate predecessor, Bankcorp, received as part of an unlawful apartheid-era bailout.But since the report has been leaked, there has been deafining silence from the EFF&#8217;s top leadership on the matter.No statements. Not even a tweet on a matter which was trending the whole weekend.Instead, the EFF leadership visited the home of white monopoly capital, the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE), where Barclays Africa is listed, and shook hands with JSE management.One would assume that now would be the perfect opportunity for the 3rd largest opposition party to commence with their occupations. But since the EFF returned from its trip from London in 2015, where they met imperialists like Robin Renwick, the party has distorted and reversed all of their previous statements.The meeting with Renwick and other representatives of imperialism happened under the secret rule called the Chatham House Rule . Up until now no one knows what was said between the EFF and the representatives of British colonialism. The media is also not interested to ask the relevant questions. What is known is that after meeting Robin Renwick and others, EFF changed its policy in a number of significant ways.The same zeal EFF had for Zuma to pay back the money has disappeared in the face of White Monopoly Capital.