By Thabi Myeni Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma’s campaign was plagued with gross sexism, anti-blackness and racism, largely because of her black womanhood. The way her campaign was received was a true reflection of our colonised patriarchal society’s attitudes towards sex, power and the place of Black women in positions of leadership and everyone witnessed it, including feminists. This was a testable moment for feminists, particularly those who claim to be radical. Here’s a Black woman that you supposedly dislike, experiencing sexism and misogyny on public platforms, feminist principle says defend her. So why didn’t mainstream feminists pass the test?  Black feminism is an ideological position and therefore it must not be compromised by one’s feelings. Black feminism at its core is a radical political movement to end sexist-racist oppression while remaining cognizant that all black oppression is fostered by colonisation. One of its main principles is to defend marginalized and dehumanized lives by any means necessary. That’s Black feminism.  So in the absence of viable Black feminism in South African society, NDZ was left to fend for herself against patriarchy and misogyny. Not only was the lack of solidarity and defense of NDZ by feminists extremely disappointing but it exposed that mainstream feminists are unprincipled. Black women have been spectators of power for centuries, in the shadows behind powerful men, having burning aspirations to break the glass ceiling, but being relegated to secretarial duties or mothers. NDZ dared to contest the highest position in the country and feminists failed her on two basic grounds; support and defence. They failed to support her pro-black policies and they failed to defend her from sexism and racism. Their silence was loudest when patriarchs relegated NDZ, an accomplished black woman doctor, anti-apartheid activist and former Chair of the African Union, to being “Zuma’s ex-wife”. Their lack of outrage when certain politicians tried to convince her, and in extension all black women, that we don’t have what it takes to lead the nation is sad.  Infact this situation shows that liberal feminists have internalised patriarchy and misogyny. Perhaps they’ve taken on some of the societal conditioning that they’re apparently against. They don’t like or defend NDZ because they hate President Jacob Zuma. The ironic narrative is that NDZ is an extension of her ex-husband. This problematic take on NDZ’s political identity is exactly what’s wrong with unprincipled feminism. If a black woman hits me today, and an able-bodied man hits her tomorrow, principle says I must defend her with my life. That’s black feminism. We take the same position of solidarity with Black consciousness when we defend the likes of Mmusi Maimane, Lindiwe Mazibuko and Patricia de Lille from attacks by the racist Democratic Alliance (DA) beyond political party lines based on simple and intentional principle.  Feminists must learn that just because they dont like NDZ’s political identity, it doesn’t make her immune to the same patriarchal, misogynistic, racist oppression we all experience. The Black feminist movement is based on solidarity with marginalized folks. You don’t get to look the other way when you don’t like the victim’s identity because principle dictates that we defend to advance the liberation of black women.  This is definitely a teachable moment for Black feminist discourse in South Africa. We need to remain grounded in the principle of solidarity and separate our emotions from our duties as vanguards of Black women emancipation. In addition, we should always put a marginalized person before our own socialized feelings about their political, social or physical identity. We must learn from Assata Shakur, a revolutionary feminist whose years in the Black Panthers was plagued by sexism. Not once did she forsake the principle of Black unity because Black men themselves are marginalized. Once she understood this, she reinforced Black feminist ethos in the movement to eradicate the sexism. We need to move towards principled Black feminism with the same logic, where principle forces us to defend even Black women we have problems with from patriarchy and misogyny.