By BO Staff Writer The Oppenheimers can now have their own international airport within the OR Tambo International Airport. This is a state within a state. The decision to allow one of the wealthiest families to run their own international airport was made by the High Court yesterday. Now the Oppenheimers can move their contraband as they wish and the Court says its fine. To put into perspective how deep into the pockets of the Oppenheimers and other white monopoly capital agents the judge’s are, imagine if a decision was given in favour of the Guptas to run their own international airport. It’s a known fact that the Oppenheimers are into diamonds, amongst other commodities, which are big in the underworld. Now, empowered by the High Court decision, they can peacefully move diamonds illegally from South Africa (SA) through their private international airport. Imagine what they will bring back into the country illegally?  In the last 2 years the Oppenheimers have illegally shifted most of their wealth outside SA. That’s why they no longer appear in the list of the richest South Africans. They are conducting massive looting of South African wealth. Now their private international airport will serve, amongst other things, to enable them to evade taxes and royalties plus move as much wealth as they wish out of SA. The danger is that a privately owned international airport could also be used to smuggle drugs and arms in and out of the country as well as to fuel diamond wars in the African continent. Imagine this – an Oppenheimer’s airplane lands in some remote diamond mines Region in the Democratic Republic of Congo, offloads arms, loads diamonds and flies back to Europe via SA. This decision by the High Court, read with the many other Court decisions to undermine the electoral campaign of Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma because of her stance on Radical Economic Transformation (RET), shows that judges are now servants of white monopoly capital and don’t care to render decisions in a fair manner. It’s time to call the judges out! South Africa is getting tired of being bullied by those with money. Now the judiciary in SA can be said to be captured by white monopoly capital and on top of the list of its capturers are the Oppenheimers.