By Rev. Fr. Maieane M. Khaketla As an Anglican and a priest in God’s Holy Church, I hung my head in shame and utter disgust as I watched the “sermon” delivered by the Archbishop of Cape Town and Metropolitan of the Anglican Church of Southern Africa, The Most Rev. Dr. Cecil Thabo Makgoba, in St George’s Cathedral, Cape Town on Christmas Eve. When one expected to hear a sermon on the baby in the manger, the shepherds watching their flocks or the angelic host singing Gloria In Exelsis Deo, the whole Archbishop raved and rented about how Cyril Ramaphosa should immediately remove President Jacob Zuma. It was abominable to say the least. What made it most disgusting was that it was shouted from a pulpit, where the gospel of the Christ child should be preached. We can stomach it if he calls TV cameras to record him toyi-toying with university students on the fees must fall campaign, but the pulpit should be respected for what it is, and what it is meant for. On what authority is the Archbishop giving orders to the African National Congress (ANC)? He talks about “Zuma and his cohorts who have made the SA Treasury their own.” What does he say about his friends and fellow bishops who are abusing church funds collected from poor widows’ mites? There are numerous cases of corruption, fraud and sexual abuse against bishops, which the Archbishop has conveniently ignored. There is a cry throughout the province of maladministration of dioceses, abuse of church funds, and he is saying nothing about that. Hundreds of Anglican priests are suffering under cruel bishops but are afraid to speak out because of fear of victimization. He is aware of the plight of these priests but is conveniently ignoring them. As a shepherd, father and pastor, Archbishop Makgoba is a dismal failure. As he is calling on Mr. Ramaphosa to boot out President Zuma, I also call on the Synod of Bishops to boot him out. He is an embarrassment to the church and has brought it into disrepute. Alternatively, he should resign as Archbishop and seek election as a member of the Western Cape Provincial Committee of the ANC.