For immediate release
12 December 2017 REQUEST FOR THE IMPEACHMENT OF THE THREE JUDGES WHO PRESIDED OVER THE JUDGEMENT OF THE HEAD OF THE NATIONAL DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS FOR JUDICIAL OVERREACH AND POLITICAL INTERFERENCE BY THE PROGRESSIVE PROFFESSIONAL FORUM TO WRITE TO THE JUDICIAL SERVICES COMMISSION  On the 1st of November 2012, President Jacob Zuma appointed Dustan Mlambo as the Judge President of the Gauteng Division of the High Court. On the 8th of December 2017, five years after his appointment, Judge President Dustan Mlambo, Gauteng High Court Judge Van Der Linde and Judge Natvarlal Ranchod ruled that the decision to appoint Mr. Shaun Abrahams by President Jacob Zuma be set aside.
The verdict as outlined by the full court stated that President Jacob Zuma because of numerous criminal charges that he faced was “conflicted” and therefore did not have authority to appoint, suspend or remove the director of the national director of public prosecution and handed that responsibility to Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa.
What was supposed to be a labour matter filed by Corruption Watch, Freedom Under Law and the Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution turned into blatant judicial overreach intentionally done to undermine the rule of law and the constitution insofar as bringing a Constitutional crises to bear where the ‘trias politica’, separation of powers principle was subverted. It will be a travesty if not immorally unjust for any court to presuppose that the allegations against President Zuma are new but more outrageous is that both the judge President and judge Natvarlal Ranchod were initially appointed in 2010 by President Jacob Zuma, three years after he was charged with fraud, corruption, money laundering and racketeering in 2007. To all intents and purposes, the three judges have in fact nullified their own appointments as it was the same “conflicted” President who appointed them and should therefore recues themselves as they are products of a politically conflicted head of state. As the PPF we also believe that the judgement undermines the locus standi of the judicial services commission including the office of the Chief Justice of South Africa, Mogoeng Mogoeng, as it presupposes that their appointment was also irrational and therefore invalid as they were also appointed by a “conflicted” President.
Section 179 of the Constitution is unambiguous that it is only the President, as the head of the executive, who has the powers to appoint or dismiss the National Director of public prosecutions. Does it then mean that President Zuma is no longer President of the country and what implication does the judgment have on the principle of ‘precedence’ going forward in relation to the constitutional prerogative given to the President? What about the presumption of innocence found in section 35 (3)(h) of the constitution which states that “Every accused person has a right to be presumed innocent”? As the PPF we believe the judgement runs the risk of undermining our trust in the courts as it amount to a observable sedition of the ends of justice by an officer of the court. The concern for the PPF is not the scholarly application of the law or the manner in which the conclusion is reached, but the masking of the true intent of what this judgment is supposed to convey to the general public at large. Beyond the blatant subversion of section 179 and section 35(3)(h) of the constitution the judges further overstep their judicial independence and enter the realm of public discourse by appointing the current deputy president who was also appointed by President Jacob Zuma on the 25th of May 2014. The judgement cannot and must not be allowed to stand judicially, politically but also publicly because it seeks to obliterate the trust that society has entrusted on ordinary men who are bequeathed the status of Gods with the assumption that they will be impartial law -makers in the pursuit of justice. In light of the judgment which confines itself to the President being conflicted because of allegations made in 2007, what makes the appointment of Shaun Abrahams different to that of deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa as they were both appointed by President Jacob Zuma? The judgment is not only an egregious abuse of judicial power but a blatant subversion of the principle of trias politica where the basic assumption of the separation of powers is subverted so as to clandestinely impeach the sitting President and impose Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa as a de facto President. The PPF stands by this statement and believes these justices are on dangerous grounds insofar as bringing a Constitutional crisis to bear where the ‘trias politica’ separation of powers principle is being compromised at all levels but also inciting some form of civil disobedience to happen and this is the hallmark of regime change as seen in other countries instigated by the judiciary. The PPF will defend the sovereignty of South Africa including the office of the President and will not hesitate to stand up for what is clearly an erroneous, irrational and politically motivated judgment. Issued by the Office of The Secretary General Luther Lebelo For Media queries Phapano Phasha: PPF Spokesperson Mobile: 0611 263 060  