By BO Staff Writer Just a few days ago, the Judge President of the Gauteng Division of the High Court, Dunstan Mlambo, ruled that the head of the National Prosecuting Authority of South Africa (NPA) had to go and that Cyril Ramaphosa should pick his replacement – an unprecedented judgment with little basis in constitutional law. Today just days before the African National Congress (ANC) picks its new leader, Judge Mlambo struck what many believe is a major body blow to President Zuma. He ruled that the President should not be allowed to challenge some of the bold recommendations of Thuli Madonsela’s State of Capture report, and that he should personally pay his legal costs. There are however details about Judge Mlambo’s past that puts into question his ability to rule impartially on such matters. Most importantly, this is a man who was shaped by his admission as a fellow of the Legal Resources Centre (LRC) in 1987. Today he is a trustee of the LRC. Operating under the camouflage of being a Non Governmental Organisation (NGO) that fights for human rights, it’s clear that the true mission of the LRC, which has been operating in South Africa since 1979, has been the perpetuation of liberalism and pro-Western economic policies. The biggest donors of the LRC have remained Western foundations and philanthropists, particularly those from the United States of America (USA). Some of these donors are: the Ford Foundation which was started with the money of the racist Henry Ford to push a neoliberal economic agenda; the Open Society Foundation for South Africa which is famously funded by George Soros who is the founder and chairperson of the Open Society Foundations which in turn are openly directed at supporting capitalist enterprises and pro-Western policies; and the Atlantic Philanthropies is another longtime American donor that claims it “saw the opportunity to be ‘engaged in a potentially game-changing period in a society emerging from apartheid repression’ in 1991 and began to get involved in shaping the thinking of young black law graduates in South Africa, which it has continued to do since. Today the LRC has a healthy balance sheet of millions of rands and receives millions more in donations each year. On the surface, the LRC appears to be a noble organisation fighting for the rights of the poor, marginalised and vulnerable. But the sad reality is that they do this work in the greater context of a constitution that they hail as being the best in the world, even though the neoliberal economic policies this country signed up for in 1993 and concluded in 1996 have ravaged the poor and primarily benefited the wealthy. Jacob Zuma has increasingly shown himself to be an opponent of the West and its neocolonial attitude to Africa. He has aligned this country with the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa) bloc and has been working to create a new economic legacy to free us from the exploitation and colonial attitudes of our former masters. This has made him a major enemy of the West, which continues to do everything it can to destroy the man. State capture is a problem in South Africa, and always has been. But our legal system can also be captured. The past few days’ rulings against President Zuma would suggest they have been. But it’s been done in the best way possible, through the subtle long-term lobbying that comes from those who appear to be the ultimate do-gooders of the Western economic global hegemony but who are actually ensuring that the economic balance of power never changes in sub-Saharan Africa. Knowingly or unknowingly, Judge Mlambo is in effect playing right into the hands of those who have no real interest in South Africa’s sovereignty, and certainly not its sovereign wealth.  