By Andile Mngxitama As an honest interlocutor against white monopoly capital (WMC), I am compelled to assess its strengths and weaknesses. The biggest achievement of land thieves who represent white monopoly capital was to convince a lot of good people that the problem in South Africa is not white monopoly capital, the brainchild of white domination, but President Jacob Zuma and the Gupta family. One has to admit this bitter fact; WMC has skillfully manipulated a lot of people to be on its side. It paid opposition leaders and civil society and did the same with Cyril Ramaphosa’s (CR17) campaign. It relied on its media to pump up pure propaganda about state capture. It even captured the former Public Protector, Thuli Mandonsela. A lot of academics turned “analysts” are also in the WMC camp. To crown it all, they captured the judiciary and that’s the true strength of our opponents. For me, the real achievement of WMC is the propaganda war. WMC have been able to convince so many people that it is not a problem. It has further convinced others that it doesn’t even exist. Although WMC has enough money to buy a lot of leaders, it can’t buy the whole nation. Manipulating the black self-hatred sentiment served to ensure that corruption was seen as a black phenomenon whenever the hegemony of WMC was under threat. The Guptas were not white and they were an irritation that threatened the monopoly of whites over the economy. President Jacob Zuma had decidedly gone East (through BRICS) and had abandoned the West. The emergence of the forces of Radical Economic Transformation (RET) around Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma gave concrete leadership against WMC from within the ruling party. WMC evidently fought back hard and dirty against Dlamini-Zuma’s momentum. Anyway, without going into details, the point is that today I wish to recognise the achievements of our enemy and assess its strength correctly. This is the basis to rebuild our resistance moving forward. It’s the duty of leadership to have a sober and truthful assessment of the enemy in order to launch a new offensive against the oppressor. The propaganda of WMC, upheld by opposition parties and pro WMC African National Congress (ANC) leaders, has been so effective that most people do not recognise corruption by WMC. They are not angered by any revelation of massive corruption by WMC. Reaction to corruption is controlled by WMC, to the extent that it even controls our emotions. WMC was able to force us to fight in its terrain where it limited corruption to the state and painted those who are for RET as corrupt. The case of Brian Molefe is the most acute. They won’t even give him his pension while Coleman Andrews, a white man, walked away with R230 million for working only two years. If you say RET, the knee-jerk response by most people is to say that you are corrupt – echoing the sentiments of Johann Rupert, who said RET is an excuse to loot. People uniquivocally believed the land thief and Stellenbosch mafia. It is true that the defeat of NDZ has set the agenda of RET back. The ANC Elective Conference was compromised – there is no question about that. From this setback we have to appreciate that the battle has to continue to build new and more united forces for Radical Economic Transformation. Black First Land First (BLF) has raised its hand to be the leader of these forces outside the ANC and we have resolved not to agonise but to organise! Look out for BLF’s New Year’s message on 31st December 2017 giving direction for the period 2018 to 2019. RET now or never!
We are ready!
Land or death!!!