By Andile Mngxitama The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) prides itself and is valorised by the white media as an intellectual or ideas movement. It’s aspiring young leaders have appropriated the mantra of “EFF is a school”; arrogating unto themselves the mantle of purveyors of superior ideas. However, almost a year after giving political power to the racist colonial Democratic Alliance (DA); which is also the political party representing land thieves; there is not a single attempt at providing even in an article of 1000 words the justification of why giving political power to the historical enemies of black people is consistent with a revolutionary agenda. The only word on the matter is the ignorant mainstream narrative that the “DA is a better devil”, a narrative made popular by Julius Malema. The leader of the EFF is not an intellectual or an ideologue. He’s a politician engaged in political trickery and sophistry. He cares not for ideological or philosophical consistency. He says what needs to be said given the audience. Malema, as a seasoned politician and demagogue does not have to explain himself. He speaks and the followers applaud. It is for this reason that Malema would never risk an honest debate. He has continuously dodged the invitation to debate the president of Black First Land First (BLF), Andile Mngxitama. Therefore, to explain how giving political power to whites, who stole our land and enslaved us, is consistent with the struggle for black liberation, is a challenge posed not to Malema but to the members of EFF who claim to be either intellectual or ideologically superior. This question is made urgent and relevant by the fact that the DA is using the political power given to them by the EFF to overtly harm black people. The DA is involved in mass evictions of black people from land and buildings in both the metropolitan cities of Tshwane and Joburg. In the South of Joburg, earlier in the year two black people were murdered by the City of Joburg police during an eviction from land occupied by the landless. This did not lead to the breaking of the coalition or condition that should the DA forcibly evict anyone occupying land they will lose the Metros. In Tshwane the evictions are as vicious and are now joined by the racist University of Pretoria which is involved in mass evictions of the poor from the city, they even resort to colonizing public spaces with the full support of metro city of Tshwane. The DA’s actions, which have proved to be even more audacious than the ANC, should not surprise anyone. The DA is an openly anti-black party which has reached its benchmark of systematically excluding blacks in the Western Cape. The EFF gave the DA political power knowing very well that its a party of white monopoly capital but what has not been explained is the mystery of what is the tactical if not strategic value of giving political power to the very same enemy which has stolen our land. The ruse of the “ANC is more corrupt than the DA” is simply inaccurate. The media’s focus on ANC corruption does not mean there’s an absence of corruption in the DA. The notion that DA is not or is less corrupt is merely reproducing colonial and anti-black racist stereotypes. We are left with another implausible political position, that “the ANC must be humbled”. This is not an argument. It’s mere petty tavern-level spitefulness by an angry patron. No revolutionary can apply such inept reasoning to make political decisions that advance the cause of Black liberation. How will punishing the ANC by giving political power to whites, who continue to oppress all of us irrespective of political party affiliation, contribute to Black emancipation? Let’s take the cases of blatant acts of racism on blacks in DA metros. Political power in these metros has emboldened the racist and when they attack they don’t ask for political affiliation. They see black and they attack with the knowledge that the DA will use its influence to protect them. So giving political power to the DA has undoubtebly helped to give confidence to racists. None of the political talk given as explanation are able to provide any sense of satisfying the cardinal question of the discussion, which is; how is giving political power to the racist DA good for black liberation? Surely, anyone who speaks for black liberation should do better than the ANC. There is no debate about the fact the ANC has failed black people miserably. The ANC has failed the black majority by failing to transform society in the interest of the blacks but has instead maintained a dispensation that has kept whites on top. The bone of contention is the following; how is politically empowering the same whites, whom we say the ANC has served instead of us, an advanced ideological stance from the ANC? Surely revolutionaries would strive to do better than what the ANC and not replicate them. The responses or justifications given by Malema are only adequate for the hapless journalists who are generally star struck and eager to please their bosses who are decidedly anti-ANC. That’s the irony of the racist logic of white monopoly capital which owns the media. The ANC has served WMC well; but this has not stopped it from hating the ANC. Any black person who thinks they can endear themselves to whites sooner than later are destined to be hurt. Surely, the thinking layer of the EFF or the honest member are not cursed with the appauling intelligence levels of the likes of Justice Malala; Redi Tlhabi or Eusibius Mckaizer. Therefore, the emoty rhetoric of “better devil” and “humbling the ANC” can’t be satisfactory when in fact the decision to give political power to the DA is disempowering blacks even further. There has been other non intellect or even popular Facebook level responses such as; “what should have EFF done? Given political power to the Zuptas?”. Such popular but ideologically bankrupt thinking is oblivious of the many progressive options and opportunities open to the EFF once it was put in the position of “king maker”. In an open letter to Julius Malema, immediately after the local government elections showed that the EFF could become king maker, the president of BLF presented inter alia the following conditions as progressive basis for co-operation with the ANC: 1. Land Expropriation without compensation.
2. Nationalisation of banks and mines
3. Free education
4. Minimum wage of R12 500
5. Reparations for Marikana Instead of these sound basis to force the ANC back into the liberation camp, the EFF’s obsession with the removal of Zuma as a condition, sparked the substantiated claim that the EFF was commanded from London to give political power to the DA just like London bosses had forced Dr Mamphele Ramphele to kiss Helen Zille. Indeed, in the absence of sound articulation of how giving the settler colonialists political power is consistent with advancing black liberation by a political party that claims to represent black liberation, we are left to think it was indeed Lord Robin Renwick who imposed the sell out. This question is not going to disappear as it is central to what the EFF stands for not what it says it stands for in words but in actions. Giving political power to the political party of land thieves is equal to liquidating the land struggle. How can you say you are fighting land thieves to return land to its rightful owners but at the same time give land thieves political power that enables to continue purging land and it’s rightful owners. We can’t conjure up from our heads why giving colonialists political power is consistent with decolonisation. This is the question the EFF student wing has to answer honestly to itself. As things stand the EFF de facto is a pro colonialist organisation, disputing its verbal declarations to the contrary. As we have said elsewhere, EFF talks black but walks white. It doesn’t walk the black talk. The tragedy of this whole situation is that the majority of EFF do in fact want to walk black. However, the leadership is captured by London hense their illogical almost child-like rhetoric about the “better devil”. How can land thieves be a better devil? There is a retort we can expect from the sophists of the EFF to avoid answering the question posed by us. They’ll fall back on “but you are also supporting the ANC”. This is unreasonable but effective means to avoid responsibility of accounting for one’s political and ideological decisions. One has even heard others say “even the ANC is in coalition with FF+” in some municipality. This is like saying; because party A is a sell out organisation we too have a right to be sellouts. Again, while such non sequiturs are tolerable amongst the masses, the people claiming to be in a school can not hide behind such reasoning. We know they are self declared practitioners of “superior logic”. Let us deal in summary with the objection that since we support the ANC therefore the EFF is at liberty to support the DA. Firstly, this claim is simply inaccurate. We don’t support the ANC but have instead been clear that in as far as President Zuma is under attack from white monopoly capital, we as adherents of black consciousness have a duty to defend him in the same way we defend all black people under attack from white racists. We also went further to put conditions for our defence of president Zuma including the four conditions stated above topped by “land expropriation without compensation”. It’s important to remember that despite President Zuma openly adopting land expropriation without compensation as a policy directive he has received massive resistance inside the ANC itself by agents of WMC including the ANC parliamentary caucus dominated by pro WMC agents. President Zuma has delivered progressive policy on the mining charter which has been blocked by the white mining bosses through Court applications. Furthermore; we must continue to demand free education. Bonus for us is that president Zuma has removed Pravin Gordhan as minister of Finance. Such a move was bold and showed determination. The ANC failed to resolve on land expropriation without compensation at its policy conference. Similarly they failed to catch up with president Zuma who has clarified his position on these matters during the state of the nation address and repeatedly thereafter. The ANC is still unresolved about white monopoly capital as the central contradiction but this matter has been clarified by president Zuma in numerous occasions. The point being made here is that there is certainly no logical or moral equivalency between the giving of political power to the racist colonial Democratic Alliance and supporting Radical Economic Transformation as pushed by president Zuma. Supporting president Zuma is based on two planks. First that he is under attack from WMC and therefore our black consciousness dictate that we must defend him as we would any black person under such attack irrespective of their political beliefs. Secondly, we support the president conditionally on him persuing the agenda of RET. A corollary question presents itself; what is the ideological and tactical basis of giving political power to land thieves when you proclaim to be fighting for land? What is programmatic and tactical convergence between the DA and EFF and if so, is such a convergence congruent with black liberation? Giving political power to the DA can only be read as a betrayal of black aspirations and an abuse of the trust blacks have in the EFF. Giving land thieves political power while claiming to fight for land must rank amongst the most brazen surrender to the enemy whilest at same token claiming to still be persuing the battle. We have elsewhere with justification claimed that the position of the EFF is tantamount to O.R Tambo going into coalition with P.W. Botha during apartheid against homeland leaders. It utterly absurd! This absurdity is aggravated by the fact that there is consensus across the ideological divide amongst black people and their organisations that the primary enemy in South Africa remains white monopoly capital. Why would anyone who claims to be at war with WMC give political power to same WMC? The burden of explaining the conundrum of empowering those who stole our land with political power rests not with the politician who is merely politricking but with those who profess to be adherents of “superior logic” and students of revolutionary ideas and practices. Falling short of this task we would be justified to think that indeed EFF is a school to teach the advanced methods of selling out. The question of how giving political power to Helen Zille is consistent with advancing black liberation remains unanswered. And as long as this is the case the accusation that the decision to give DA political power was from London remains very plausible. Now, we wait for the thinkers inside EFF to explain this massive conundrum: how do you decolonise by giving political power to the coloniser?