By BO Staff Writer The following is a message from the Landless Workers’ Movement (Movimento dos Trabalhadores Sem Terra, MST) in Brazil published on 13 December 2017. Dear Comrades, An aggressive attack is being waged against MST landless peasants in the northern state of Pará, Brazil. Large-scale landowners along with local judicial authorities, mainstrain media and the Brazilian military police are targeting MST camps throughout the country. 2.000 peasant families living in 20 camps located in the northern State of Pará are under the risk of being violently evicted until the end of the year On Monday (11) gunman attacked the Hugo Chavez camp. Seven heavilly armed man – illegal “private security” hired by the landouwners, shot against unarmed peasants, including women and children. The judicial order for the eviction of the 300 families living at Higo Chavez camp was confirmed to be carried out by ther military police tomorrow (14). There are expected more violence, since the families are ready to resist. The recent escalation of violence takes place as the Brazilian government continues to use regressive land ownership laws, which have resulted in devastating consequences on landless and displaced agricultural workers. During the administration of the unelected Brazilian President Michel Temer, the MST has witnessed increased levels of state violence and criminalization against our members In light of the escalating violence and repression, we are issuing a call of international solidarity! Send a short video or statement in support and solidarity to the MST families in Pará to the emails address: redacao@mst.org.br and srimst@mst.org.br ! MORE IMPORTANT: LET’S TRY TO STOP TOMORROW’S EVICTION AND MORE VIOLENCE. Write to the official authorities condemning the evictions in Pará, and demanding the revision of the eviction order of Hugo Chavez Camp! Send an email to the following electronic addresses: President of the court of justice – Ricardo Ferreira Nunes: presidência@tjpa.jus.br
Secretary of State for Public Secutiry – Jeannot Jansen da silva Filho: segup.ascom@gmail.com
Agrarian Judge of Maraba – Amarildo Mazutti: Amarildo.mazutti@tjpa.jus.br Copy: srimst@mst.org.br With your solidarity and the international pressure, the 2.000 camped families of the state of Pará hope to spend Christmas in their houses and lands. MST National Board – International Relations Collective