By BO Staff Writer Judge Dunstan Mlambo has come out guns blazing against President Zuma and in the process exposed himself as an agent of white monopoly capital. This judge is biased and angry. Mlambo’s main fear is that this weekend a pro Radical Economic Transformation (RET) President may be elected at the African National Conference (ANC) elective conference. Let’s enumerate a few glaring instances of inconsistency to show how Judge Mlambo is captured by white monopoly capital. The declaratory relief sought by Pravin Gordhan, the former Minister of Finance, in the Gauteng Division of the High Court (the same division of which Mlambo is Judge President), against the Oakbay Group (Oakbay) “that he is not by law empowered or obliged to intervene in the relationship between” Oakbay and the four major banks regarding the closing of the bank accounts of Oakbay – was dismissed in August this year. Furthermore, Gordhan in his capacity as Minister of Finance, was ordered to pay the costs of Oakbay. Despite the lawyers of Oakbay having argued convincingly that Gordhan must personally pay the costs of the application for declaratory relief, the Court ordered him to pay the costs in his capacity as Minister of Finance. A week before the ANC elective conference, Judge Mlambo, in a case heard in the same Division of the High Court as the previous case, says President Zuma must pay the costs from his pocket in a matter that doesn’t justify such a grossly punitive order of costs. In fact any fair minded Judge would see that the case which deserved such a punitive cost order was the frivolous and politically charged application of Pravin Gordhan for declaratory relief where he abused the court system for his narrow political game to defend white monopoly capital. That case was so evidently in Gordhan’s own interests (which in turn is in service of white monopoly capital), yet the costs were shifted to the public. In the case of President Zuma, which is a rational application to clarify difficult questions of the powers of the President, Judge Mlambo decided to be spiteful and unduly punitive against the President. This is part of a political stratagem to try and assist Cyril Ramaphosa, the candidate of white monopoly capital, to become president of the ANC and ultimately the country. There is quite clearly an apprehension of political bias on Mlambo’s part in favour of white monopoly capital. The judiciary must be consistent and not unduly punitive. The judgment by Mlambo and company, which essentially usurps the powers of President Zuma, is nothing but a pro white monopoly capital coup. Mlambo, in a brazen biased judgement, took the powers of President Zuma and gave them to Cyril Ramaphosa. Mlambo and his gang disregarded the law and the constitution in a haste to serve a political agenda; they said that because President Zuma is conflicted as a result of cases opened against him, they gave the said powers to Ramaphosa. This is absurd to say the least. What happened to ‘innocent until proven guilty?’. What about the fact that Cyril Ramaphosa is facing a case of mass murder for the Marikana massacre? There is a case opened against Ramaphosa. Is he not therefore conflicted? The last point to raise relates to an unwitting confession by Judge Mlambo that judges are biased and captured. If this was not so, why would it matter which judge is appointed by the President? Mlambo must take the nation into his confidence and name the judge he considers tainted and therefore likely to be biased. This unwitting admission that judges play political games raises serious questions about the political games of Judge Dustan Mlambo, the conflicted judge with a political agenda.