By BO Staff Writer The white owned media is again silent at the presentation of resounding evidence disputing and discrediting their witch hunt against the Gupta family. In November, suspended Eskom head of legal compliance, Suzanne Daniels, who was paraded as a “brave” whistleblower by white media, testified under oath at the Eskom parliamentary inquiry into state capture that she was summoned into a meeting with Ajay Gupta in Melrose Arch.  Daniels told parliament that she met former Trillian CEO, Salim Essa, who then took her to meet President Jacob Zuma’s son, Duduzane Zuma, Deputy Public Enterprises Minister Ben Martins and an unknown Chinese woman on 29 July 2017. To add spice into her concoction of lies, Daniels even described to parliament what Ajay was wearing at the meeting – “grey track pants, no shoes and a t-shirt.” Ajay Gupta has refuted all such claims, providing concrete evidence which proves he was out of the country at the time of the supposed meeting. In documents submitted to the inquiry, the eldest Gupta brother provided proof of his passport stamps (which show he was in India between July 23 and July 31) and a screenshot of a YouTube clip showing him attending a religious event on the day.  Martins has also previously provided proof that he was at the funeral of Cyril Ramaphosa’s spokesperson, Ronnie Mamoepa, on the day of the claimed meeting. Martins even provided time frames of his engagements on the day. The claims made by Daniels suggest that Ajay split himself into two and was in India and Melrose Arch at the same time, or, that Ajay has Superman-like powers, to fly, undetected, from one continent to the other.  There is resounding silence from those who termed Daniels’ performative testimony as “brave” and “explosive”. It seems that the modus operandi of the white owned media is to pick and choose which evidence is valid and which should not be given the time of day.  The Gupta brothers have said they are ready to go and appear before the committee and give evidence to clear their names. We cannot wait!