By BO Staff Writer There seems to be a war going on in all the State Owned Enterprises (SOE’s). Over the weekend, focus shifted from the usual suspects (SAA, Eskom, SABC) to Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) acting CEO Collins Letsoalo when Sunday newspaper, Sunday Times reported that he had offered himself a 350% salary hike. It seems, no weekend passes without a Black SOE senior official being ‘busted’ for corruption by one white-owned media organisation or another. In South Africa, corruption has a Black face, in case you didn’t know. This time around, allegations were thrown towards Letsoalo’s direction and he was found guilty (and later fired) instantly. The newspapers have now become the courts, juries and judges. But the story leaves one with this question, if Letsoalo was guilty all along, why did the board wait for the media reports to come before firing him? Why not implement an internal investigation process, then through those findings fire him if he is guilty? You see the point is not to rid these SOE’s of corruption, but to drag certain people out, and put others (who are more favourable to white monopoly capital) in. Using the media, the point is to insert into the imagination of the people, an image of corruption (even before proven so) everytime they think of SOE’s. Think Dudu Myeni, Hlaudi Motsoeneng, Brian Molefe – all found guilty by the media, but not by legal findings. Letsoalo refuted all allegations lodged against him in a press conference yesterday and said he would approach the press ombudsman to demand an apology from the Sunday Times, which he claims has not written about all of the facts.  Meanwhile, former Prasa CEO Lucky Montana weighed in on the matter, writing a scathing response to the Sunday Times article. He says “objectively speaking, Sunday Times, through this article, has been used to support one side over the other in an ongoing conflict for control and management of this vitally important public entity.” Read Montana’a full letter below:      