By Tlhabanyane Mogomotsi It will be quite relevant for one to start of by quoting one of the greatest Chinese revolutionaries, Chairman Mao Tse-Tung, who once said, “[w]ar is the highest form of struggle for resolving contradictions, when they have developed to a certain stage, between classes, nations, states, or political groups, and it has existed ever since the emergence of private property and of classes.” With that quote in mind, one can only imagine how the geo-politics of South Africa will be like from 2017 going forward. There has never been peace in the world, in continents, nations, provinces, immediate communities or in our societies at large, and this is mainly because of the structural oppression and exploitation exerted by imperial countries on ‘developing nations’, and on citizens by their immediate states.  We must all pay great attention to the unfolding politico-economic events in South Africa that might lead to our local political parties resolving their contradictions and political disagreements with a more intensive political action i.e. war.  We see how difficult it’s becoming for the African National Congress (ANC) government to proceed with its usual political means. This is mainly because politics amongst political groups has developed to a certain stage where some parties take well mapped regime change orders from London, specifically headed by Lord Robin Renwick and locally supported and funded by the “Stellenbosch Mafia” and business man Johann Rupert et al. These imperialist political tools for regime change are quite determined, with the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) playing the role of Democratic Alliance’s Militant and Radical Defence Force (DA-MRDF), and willing to, through a direct onslaught on President Jacob Zuma, realize a long attempted regime change.  We all surely remember that a systematic racially motivated economic war has long started in South Africa. The war is yet to be won by the most powerful, both politically and economically. We also know that the most racist and white monopoly capitalist (WMC) organisation, DA, with the help of the ideologically bankrupt, flip-flopping pseudo-revolutionaries, EFF and Rupert the handler, are doing all in their powers to ensure that whites remain owners of about 87% of land and 93% JSE-listed companies, while subjecting the Black poor and working classes into a 12-feet pool of triple challenges (unemployment, poverty and inequality). For the protection of their BRICS focused progress, and the smooth running of the State Of the Nation Address (SONA), the ANC government, led by President Zuma, has deployed 441 members of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) to “maintain law and order” in parliament on Thursday, and to keep the DA’s radical wing, the EFF, from causing disruptions. The DA and EFF have called the move by the president a militarization of parliament, while the media uses this to continue painting an anti-Zuma narrative. Both these entities act as if the nature of the South African “state” (neo-colonial and neo-Apartheid in this sense) and its organs isn’t already militaristic and violent towards Black people. The “state” or “neo-Apartheid state” is a tool used to systematically oppress and exploit the poor and the working class through the order of the political elites and capitalists. This “neo-Apartheid state” is run by Black elites with pseudo-power, on behalf of WMC.  The Zuma regime ought to lock heads with the inventors of SA’s regime change (similar to that of Brazil) meant to replace Zuma with a puppet president, whom will get mandate directly from London. The ANC, or Zuma in particular, is militarily ready for this, and surely has always been ready. Can we call this a point where political actions by political parties will build up to a bloody national war instigated by international interferes such as Queen Elizabeth’s dirt-dealers (Renwick)? Be ready South Africa!