By BO Staff WriterWhite racist journalists, including Peter Bruce, Adriaan Basson and Tim Cohen, have taken the black radical movement, Black First Land First (BLF) to court for demonstrating their right to protest.The movement has heavily criticised white owned media for its hypocrisy and racism &#8211; covering up white corruption and making it seem like it is only black people who are corrupt in South Africa. BLF has also cracked down on white corrupt corporations like ABSA, which stole billions from the Reserve Bank.The movement said it would meet the white racists, disguised as journalists, in court.&#8220;BLF is clear that racist journalists will not be allowed the freedom to be racist. In the same way we shall not allow white journalists to cover up white corruption,&#8221; BLF said in a statement released using the movement&#8217;s blog after their website was shutdown by white monopoly capital.Also part of the court application are black journalists, Eusebius MacKaiser, Ferial Haffajee and Karima Brown. BLF re-emphasised that in its rolling action against racist journalists, it would not target black journalists at all.&#8220;BLF has been clear that it has no plans to take any protest action against black journalists, even the non-whites mentioned above. They suffer from the syndrome of mistaking themselves with the master&#8230; What these lost blacks need is a good dose of Black Consciousness to free them from their hallucinatory whiteness. These journalists are running away from their blackness and are over compensating in their defence of racism. They need help, not protest,&#8221; the movement said.Read the full statement below:Racist journalists take BLF to courtLast night, Black First Land First (BLF) received notification for an urgent application to the High Court for an interdict against us. The application is brought forward by 12 so-called &#8216;journalists&#8217; and the poodle of white monopoly capital the South African National Editors Forum (SANEF).The bully boys of the legal fraternity, Webber Wentzel, are the lawyers that seem to have volunteered to harass BLF in a desperate attempt to silence our movement through legal lynching. BLF is under attack from white monopoly capital because our movement has been fighting racism in the media and pushing for ABSA to pay back the money stolen from the people.BLF will meet the racists in court and ask if promoting racism and covering up the corruption of white monopoly capital is journalism.BLF is clear that racist journalists will not be allowed the freedom to be racist. In the same way we shall not allow white journalists to cover up white corruption.The court application by these white racist journalists is to try use the courts to bring back the apartheid system of banning protests and gagging black voices. It won&#8217;t work. The right to protest cannot be taken away from us.BLF is surprised to see the names of house negroes who suffer from identity crisis such as Eusebius McKaizer, Ferial Haffajee and Karima Brown, in the court application. BLF has been clear that it has no plans to take any protest action against black journalists, even the non-whites mentioned above. They suffer from the syndrome of mistaking themselves with the master. What these lost blacks need is a good dose of Black Consciousness to free them from their hallucinatory whiteness. These journalists are running away from their blackness and are over compensating in their defence of racism. They need help, not protest.BLF will oppose the application. BLF will test if the courts are also captured by white racism.We remain unshaken! Land or Death!ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT (BLF NCC)4 July 2017Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Facebook: Black First Land First Twitter: @black1stland1st Website: www.blf.org.zaZanele Lwana (National Spokesperson) Cell: +27799867225Lindsay Maasdorp (National Spokesperson) Cell: +27 79 915 2957Brian Tloubatla (Deputy National Spokesperson) Cell: +27 82 216 7664