By BO Staff WriterIn a court room full of Black First Land First (BLF) land activists, the anti-racist movement came face-to-face with white racist journalists, and their black lackeys, arguing that it was their right to protest against racists. BLF was brought to court by the South African National Editor s Forum (SANEF) for their peaceful picket outside the home of white journalist and unrepentant racist, Peter Bruce. The movement were protesting Bruce s general racist undertones in his writing, and his turning a blind eye to white corruption (in aid of white monopoly capital), in the newspapers he edits. The organisation has argued that it is blatant racism for SANEF to take BLF to court for picketing outside the home of white journalist, Bruce, when SANEF said absolutely nothing when the Democratic Alliance (DA) and SaveSA marched to the homes of the Guptas and to their place of worship. BLF also highlighted the hypocrisy of SANEF which was dead silent when ANN7 and New Age journalists were attacked for merely doing their jobs. SANEF issued no statements and there were no demands for journalists to wear black in solidarity. Speaking to the media outside the court, BLF president Andile Mngxitama made a moving black philosophical point, saying that it was peculiar and interesting for the Naspers supported SANEF to ask journalists to wear black &#8211; given the fact that white journalists have the power and priviledge to wear black only one day, while black journalists have to bear the brunt of blackness daily, whether they wear black or not. True to its racist nature, SANEF sent black people to do its bidding while white people sat quietly watching. Like a true white supremacist organisation, SANEF was facilitating a process of black on black violence by getting black SANEF chair, Mahlatse Gallens, and black lawyer, Tembakazi Ngcukaitobi, to fight other black people on their behalf. The judgement (from a white and clearly biased judge) was reserved for Friday, 07 July, at 12 pm.