By BO Staff Writer White monopoly capital and its lackeys do not play. You challenge them, you get exterminated! After waging war on white corruption and showing the glaring hypocrisy and racism of the white owned media, the black radical movement, Black First Land First’s (BLF) website was shut down in secret without informing them. “The content of our website was found to be offensive to business partners following complaints,” BLF said in a statement. The website hosts have continuously been harassed and “threatened over a long period of time”. BLF has pointed out the irony of those who preach ‘media freedom’ but say nothing when Black people’s voices are maimed. Read the full BLF statement below: White monopoly capital shuts down BLF website The Black First Land First (BLF) website (www.blf.org.za) was shut down yesterday by white monopoly capital and its agents. The website hosts were threatened over a long period of time and under duress, had to shut down the page without even informing BLF. When we inquired, the only response was that the content of our website was found to be offensive to business partners following complaints. This was the same tactic used to injustifiably and illegally shut down the bank accounts of Oakbay Resources. White monopoly capital controls everything and if it’s threatened, it uses its powers to bully its opponents. We are not surprised by this fascist behaviour because BLF is the only revolutionary movement in direct conflict with white monopoly capital. We believe the shutting down of our webpage is directly linked to the BLF campaign to force ABSA to pay back the money and our quest to combat racism and cover-ups of corruption by the white owned media. The agents of racism that claim to stand for media freedom are the biggest threat to freedom, including media freedom. BLF has not taken away anyone’s right to speak, but we have been gagged. Our media and communications platform has been shutdown and we are unable to share messages with the public. Where is the Right-2-Know campaign? Where is SANEF? Where is the so-called Commission for Human Rights? Where is the Kathrada Foundation? Where is the outrage by defenders of media freedom? Is freedom and media freedom only the preserve of whites? In South Africa, it is as clear as day that Blacks have no right to freedom of expression. In the meantime BLF will issue statements using its WordPress blog – http://black1stland1st.wordpress.com/ BLF will not be intimidated. BLF will not be stopped. ABSA must pay back the money. Racist journalists must stop their racism. Aluta continua! Land or Death! ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT (BLF NCC) 4 July 2017 Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Zanele Lwana
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27799867225 Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957 Brian Tloubatla
(Deputy National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 82 216 7664