By BO Staff Writer Money is being raised by white monopoly capital in South Africa and abroad to destroy the radical black consciousness movement Black First Land First (BLF). Sources who do not want to be name for fear of reprisal have told Black Opinion that part of the funds are being used to legally lynch BLF through constant court attacks. The other funds would be used to push a propaganda campaign against BLF through buying journalists and politicians. If these plans don’t work, Plan B is to buy thugs to physically attack BLF leaders and members. On Sunday in a press briefing, BLF revealed the plot by white monopoly capital to destroy it. The movement said an amount of R50 million was raised by white monopoly capital and the London based imperialist forces. These claims have now been verified by two independent sources. Prime Media has come out and said it would fund the South African National Editors Forum (SANEF) which is in a long legal and political battle with BLF. This move further gives credence to the claim of an elaborate plan to destroy BLF by white monopoly capital. BLF is seen as the only organisation that is not under the influence of white monopoly capital and therefore it threatens the interests of imperialism and white monopoly capital. Even staunch white capitalists like Johann Rupert have been reported to be complaining about the radical movement.  When approached for comment the president of BLF, Andile Mngxitama, said, “we are aware of the plan to neutralize BLF through multiple strategies including endless court applications with costs against us.” Mngxitama further said, “BLF is aware that the courts are still white controlled and therefore hostile to organisations that fight against racism such as BLF”. Mngxitama said the movement was not surprised by the funds being collected to try silence BLF. Last week BLF complained of systematic attempts to silence it. The organization reported that its website and Gmail account were shut down. The Twitter account of BLF’s president, Mngxitama, who has over 70 000 followers, was suspended for 12 hours and his Facebook account was also suspended for 30 days. White monopoly capital is intensifying its attacks on BLF. BLF is said to be consulting widely to develop a comprehensive response to the latest attack. Mngxitama said BLF won’t apologize for fighting racism and is monitoring the media closely for any racist reporting.