By BO Staff Writer 
Today marks one year since the murder of Micah Xavier Johnson at the hands of white supremacist sponsored police brutality. By 7 July 2016, Micah Xavier Johnson, had evidently had enough of the naked racism related to the police killings of black people in the US when he took down five white police officers (and injured nine others) with military precision. The next day Micah was tracked down and cowardly killed by the police. Before the incident reports suggest that Micah had clarified that he wanted to kill only whites, more especially police officers who were white. The incident followed protest action against police brutality that had resulted in the loss of many black lives amongst others Alton Sterling, Philando Castile, Sean Bell, Michael Brown, Ronald Madison, Eric Garner, Amadou Diallo, Manuel Loggins Jr, and Kendra James. Following his death the black consciousness organisation, Black First Land First (BLF), declared Micah X Johnson “a martyr of black liberation in the 21 century”. He was hailed by BLF President Andile Mngxitama as “the finest revolutionary of our time and a splendid black person who has attained the highest level of radical black consciousness”. Mngxitama further said that Micah, like Steve Biko, had overcome fear which is the “most important stumbling block towards black liberation”. BLF has called upon its members and blacks everywhere “to observe a moment of silence … raise (their) black power fists” and in battle cry mode shout “Black Power! Long live the spirit of Micah Xavier Johnson, long live!”. The radical movement has also announced that all its meetings, protest actions, events and other activities shall open with a moment of silence for the entire month of July in honor of Micah. Moreover BLF has appealed to everyone to use pictures of Micah X Johnson on social media as their profile picture. Black Opinion is herewith republishing the full statement of BLF which first appeared on the BLF website this morning: Remember Brother Micah X Johnson! Message from the BLF President Last year Black First Land First (BLF) resolved that Brother Micah Xavier Johnson a Martyr of black liberation the world over. Today, exactly one year after he was killed by the para military white supremacist US police force, we call on all black people to start a process of remembering our brother whose actions are the highest form of love for black people. He chose to die for us. He is above all of us who are too scared to liberate ourselves from the plantation by any means necessary. We note that the global black organizations who are praised for resistance by the white world, continue to distance themselves from the brave black warrior. BLF embraces our brother, Micah X Johnson, who we regard as a revolutionary holy saint. His love for black people is exemplary and inspirational. We love you Brother Micah X Johnson.
BLF repeats its call to our people everywhere to honor Brother Micah Xavier Johnson. Lets observe a moment of silence while raising our black power fists. Lets raise our voices in loud salutations with the words, “Black Power! Long live the spirit of Micah Xavier Johnson, long live!”. All BLF meetings, protests actions and other events shall in this month open with a moment of silence for Brother Micah. We ask all BLF members, and indeed all our people, to display images of Michah X Johnson on social media to ensure that we never forget him and never forgive those who took his life. Micah X Johnson, soldier who died with his boots on so that we blacks can breathe! We shall never forget! Issued on behalf of Black First Land First by its President, Andile Mngxitama 8 July 2017 Contact details BLF Email: blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First
Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za President
Andile Mngxitama
Cell number: +27 82 678 3200 Deputy Secretary General
Tshidiso Tsimong
Cell number: 0796680351  