By BO Staff WriterOn 29 June 2017 Black First Land First published the following statement on its website , which Black Opinion is reissuing, regarding its picket action the same day against Peter Bruce:Our general position is that we respect the freedom of expression and we defend it in terms of the media. However,there can be no freedom to distort; to lie; to manufacture news; and to mount unjustifiable campaigns.It is clear that these campaigns are being run against President Zuma because of his stance on land; Minister Mosebenzi Zwane because of the Mining Charter; and the Public Protector because of her findings that say that ABSA must pay back the money. White owned media has decided to vilify to basically damage all of us who stand against white monopoly capital. Those that constitute the white media are no longer journalists; they are hit men and women of white monopoly capital. Insofar as they are determined to continue running such campaigns, we shall vigilantly use our democratic right to protest such an injustice. Their right to freedom of expression does not extend to infringing upon our rights in terms of the Constitution. While the white owned media has the democratic right to freedom of expression, writing or speaking about any person or entity via the employment of lies as is the case with Peter Bruce and the rest of the white owned media is not a constitutional right. BLF in these circumstances will not hesitate to exercise its constitutional right to protest, as it has done on numerous occasions, including via picketing the wrongdoers.BLF would like to warn the white owned media that should they continue to write lies as they are doing to disappear real stories and manufacture lies we shall continue to protest against their wrongful and criminal actions.We will not be apologetic. Should Peter Bruce continue to run an anti black people agenda, he must go back home. Anyone who stands against Radical Economic Transformation (RET) is against black people and we are not going to allow them to sustain that project. If Peter Bruce is going to stand against the transformation that we stand for for land, for mining and for the banks etc that must come to blacks he must leave!The white owned media is trying to play the game that Peter Bruce is an opinion writer and that he is not a journalist that is utter rubbish! He is a senior news person. That is why he has two columns one with the Business Day and one with the Sunday Times. His opinion counts. People believe that what he says is the truth. He therefore has no right to lie. Even if he is an opinion writer he is compelled to write the truth. But he is not doing this and that is our problem! Furthermore, since he is a senior at both newspapers he should be in a position to influence the publication of stories, on the front pages of these papers, that expose white monopoly capital but he does not do this. So his conduct has not absolved him from guilt at all!Issued by the National Coordinating Committee of Black First Land First (BLF NCC)29 June 2017Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com Facebook: Black First Land FirstTwitter: @black1stland1st Website: www.blf.org.zaZanele Lwana (National Spokesperson) Cell: +27799867225Lindsay Maasdorp (National Spokesperson) Cell: +27 79 915 2957Brian Tloubatla (Deputy National Spokesperson) Cell: +27 82 216 7664