By BO Staff WriterFinance Minister, Malusi Gigaba, is looking into reports of financial mismanagement at National Treasury, which were exposed by television news channel, ANN7, last week. The channel ran an hour and a half long expose uncovering an internal auditing report which was swept under the rug by former Finance Minister, Pravin Gordhan. The report implicates him and other top staffers at the treasury in gross financial mismanagement amounting to more that R4 billion. Gigaba&#8217;s spokesperson, Mayihlome Tshwete told ANN7 that an investigation into the audit report was being concluded and that it would be made public once done. In a Treasury statement, which sought to downplay the extent of the corruption at hand, Gigaba said &#8220;building and maintaining public confidence is key in the work of the National Treasury.&#8221;On the flip side, white media has remained mum on the story, purely because it implicates the darling of white monopoly capital, Gordhan. White &#8216;civil society&#8217; organisations which also pretend to be crusaders for a corruption-free government (but instead are regime change agents) have also chosen not to touch the explosive story of vast corruption in Treasury. White media covers up R4.3 billion corruption by Pravin GordhanThe Black First Land First (BLF) movement, which has been very critical of Gordhan, said action must be taken against the him. &#8220;Black First Land First (BLF) calls on the ruling party, the African National Congress (ANC), to take immediate action against the former Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan for his involvement in acts of corruption in the Treasury amounting to over R4 billion,&#8221; the movement said. &#8220;BLF believes that the reason why the report had not been made public is because Gordhan and his acolytes in Treasury attempted to cover up this corruption involving the theft of billions of rands of public money. To this end we believe that Gordhan is in parliament to continue the cover up of corruption in cahoots with white monopoly capital his business partners across many complex shareholding schemes. In this context, we call on the ruling party [ANC] to immediately suspend Pravin Gordhan from parliament. We also call for the suspension of all the senior managers in Treasury who were in office at the time that the crimes were committed.&#8221;The movement has also said it will lay criminal charges against Gordhan.