By BO Staff Writer&#8220;The court is unfair. If the magistrates don&#8217;t take the [right] decision, we are not going to stop this, we are going to burn everything. Everything to ash because we are tired of this.&#8221; &#8211; Coligny community memberToday, two white men were granted bail for the alleged murder of a 16 year old black boy. The men, who were revealed in court to be Pieter Dooreward and Phillip Schutte, say the boy jumped out of the back of their moving bakkie after they caught him &#8220;stealing&#8221; sunflowers in a nearby farm. The black community members of Coligny dispute this claim. They say the men assaulted the boy, Matlhomola Jonas Mosweu, and pushed him out of the moving van. The boy later died in hospital. Dooreward and Schutte were granted bail of R5000 each. This angered the black community of the Scotland informal settlement, which then torched the home of a white farmer after the bail hearing. Their black rage is justified and supported by many black people around the country who suffer under the excruciating boot of white racism daily. White people in South Africa, and around the world, value property more than they do black people&#8217;s lives. In fact, as used to be the case during slavery, white people still view and treat black people as lower than property.As seen from the Fees Must Fall student protests, white people were more concerned about burnt paintings than about black kids who cannot afford an education, who cannot afford decent accommodation, and who are taught an education designed to continue their subjugation. The black people of Coligny possess a rage that all black people in South Africa need to have. How can we be addressed by apartheid mass murderers like FW de Klerk and not be enraged? How can white people own our land, economy and wealth and we not be enraged? The judicial system is not designed to give black people justice. A twitter user said &#8220;if Mosweu&#8217;s family had land, then he would be picking sunflowers in his own backyard. And still be alive.&#8221; The only way for black people to get justice is through them fighting for their land. That will need the commitment and rage similar to that of the black people of Coligny. Fire and confrontation is the only thing which will give us our land and dignity, so that our children can pick dozens of flowers without fearing death.