By Motapo We Zi’Gidi The actions of the old Pretoria boy, Peter Hain, wherein he disguises his long battle with African National Congress (ANC) presidential hopeful, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma with his request to the UK government to enlist her as a money launderer, (together with President Jacob Zuma and others), are suspect. Of course, Dlamini-Zuma has written to distance herself from the allegations, but it is necessary to explore where the fall out between Dlamini-Zuma and Hain began. It was in 2001 when Dlamini-Zuma, then South Africa’s foreign minister, wrote a scathing letter to her British counterpart, Robin Cook, to complain about Hain’s conduct. Hain served as deputy foreign secretary for Africa. Amongst other things raised by Dlamini-Zuma was a Hain interview with a Sunday paper where he “threatened South Africa’s relationship with Britain and jeopardised the scheduled state visit by President Thabo Mbeki to the UK later [that] year.” Hain expressed his great displeasure with what was then called South Africa’s “quiet diplomacy” policy towards Zimbabwe. He blamed South Africa’s “constructive engagement” policy towards the Zimbabwe land revolution for causing South Africa “considerable damage”. Hain is quoted to have said, “I sometimes wonder whether the leadership of southern Africa understands the gravity of the situation. Constructive engagement seems to have failed.” Dlamini-Zuma refused to take the punches from Hain and referred to the comments as “deeply offensive”. It was unusual for a member of a foreign government to publicly criticise another government. Dlamini-Zuma viewed Hain’s conduct, who made the criticism while visiting South Africa, as “confirmation of the contempt in which he holds that government”. Dlamini-Zuma as a foreign minister played her part in averting a British-sponsored war in Zimbabwe. We now know that Britain repeatedly tried to coerce South Africa to assist it to invade Zimbabwe. Britain’s warmongering is well documented in the early 2000s. British unilateralism led to the massive destruction of Afghanistan and Iraq. Zimbabwe may have just been part of these statistics. Former president, Thabo Mbeki once revealed that, “[t]here is a retired chief of the British armed forces and [he] said that he had to withstand pressure from the then prime minister of the United Kingdom, Tony Blair, who was saying to the chief of the British armed forces, ‘you must work out a military plan so we that can physically remove Robert Mugabe’.” The fallout between Hain and Dlamini-Zuma signified that the relations between South Africa and Britain took a strain under Hain’s watch. Born in Kenya but growing up in Pretoria, Hain is no different from the white settler community in southern Africa, with its deep contempt for black leadership. His latest actions show that he has never quite recovered from Britain’s failure to have South Africa on its side in the intended demolition of Zimbabwe. At the height of the tussle between Dlamini-Zuma and Hain in 2001, as to be expected, the Democratic Alliance (DA) jumped in to take Hain’s side. Its leader at the time, Tony Leon, described Dlamini-Zuma’s letter as “heavy-handed, ill-advised and misdirected”. MP, Nick Clelland said, “South Africa has never had a friend in the UK (United Kingdom) like Peter Hain. Africa is unlikely to have a more ardent champion in the chancelleries of Europe than him.” Hain continues to lead the charge in ensuring that South Africa and the rest of the sub-region are firmly under the control of imperial Britain. Westmister is fearful of a repeat of Zimbabwe in South Africa. There is a general feeling that South Africa is getting more and more rebellious and provocative under President Jacob Zuma. In an attempt to settle a score with Hain, he also wants to derail and scupper Dlamini-Zuma’s push for a number one position in the ANC, which will surely set her up to lead South Africa in 2019. After all the failed attempts to upset the ANC with impeachments and court cases in order to remove President Zuma, Hain, Open Society Foundation (led by George Soros) and others, are going for the jugular. Picking on Dlamini-Zuma is devious and, at worst, an assassination of her person by Hain and his friends. Now, he has new friends in the likes of former Volksblad journalist, Johannes Wessels who penned a letter of appreciation to Hain for alerting the British authorities and public about “the rampant corruption robbing ordinary South Africans of quality public services,”. Peter Hain and friends have quietly ignored the plight of the black majority in South Africa, where their families still enjoy an economic advantage from many years of looting and dispossession of Africans. Since they have decided to interfere with the assistance of Hain and others, can the FBI and Scotland Yard help South Africa recover money stolen during apartheid and through continuous rampant illicit flows? Our poverty is made in European capitals, America and elsewhere. Siya yi banga le economy!