By BO Staff Writer Yesterday, the media conference by the Black First Land First (BLF) touched on a number of pressing issues, including how South Africa is being targeted by both USA and Britain for recolonisation. BLF president, Andile Mngxitama, who was leading the conference, extensively explained how the Anglo/American imperialist block is under panic because finally, South Africa may be moving towards radical economic transformation. This panic has resulted in imperialism strengthening its many arms (including the media) for attack. Mngxitama touched on the fact that white media propaganda and lies are largely being taken as truth by masses of misinformed blacks. He noted that “the [white] media has devised the mantra of “state capture” and deliberately limits it to the Guptas and Zuma.” He asked the pertinent question, how can the Guptas have captured the state when they don’t even own 1% of the economy? “The state capture device is a powerful tool to deceive our people into not seeing that the biggest capturers of the state is [white monopoly capital] WMC which controls 90% of the economy including land. The Guptas are targeted because they wanted to enter the economy which is monopolized by whites. Any business which is not white will be destroyed in the same way they have destroyed the Gupta businesses. Lies and slander will be invented and fed our people so that the economy remains in white hands,” Mngxitama said. Quoting Steve Biko’s now famous quote about the most potent weapon in the hands of the oppressor being the mind of the oppressed, Mngxitama listed instances where white-owned media has taken part in spreading propaganda to protect its owners – white monopoly capital and Anglo/American empire. “Black people have to realise that we are hypnotized by the media of WMC. We have to wake each other up. President Zuma is not the the enemy. They have made him the enemy in our minds so that they can stop [radical economic transformation] RET. Examples of this media propaganda are many. 1. Why silence around the fact that R60 billion annually is stolen from S.A. by WMC? 2. How did Nicky Oppenheimer and Johann Rupert disappear within a year from being the richest people in S.A.? What happened to their wealth? 3. KPMG scandal is about how it criminally withdrew its report showing Pravin Gordhan was mafia king. But propaganda now says they are bad because they have been Gupta auditors. 4. BLF has asked parliament to stop the one sided witch hunt at Eskom and have a proper probe. The media propaganda turns our position into defending the Guptas. 5. When in December 2015, WMC forced the president to appoint Pravin Gordhan, it was not called state capture but rescuing the country. 6. The invasion of S.A. by the Anglo/American empire is reported as a fight against corruption.” Mngxitama made it clear as day that the white-owned media is on the side of white monopoly capital and that they want Cyril Ramaphosa to emerge as ANC president, come December, so that whiteness can continue functioning undisturbed. “Once they finish us with propaganda, we become easy meat for colonization,” Mngxitama said.