By BO Staff Writer Last night, the radical black consciousness movement, Black First Land First (BLF), commemorated the Russian revolution with a night of talks, intellectual engagement and a film screening. The event was held at Mthubi The Hub in Hatfield in Pretoria, where a group of black artists have occupied a house and hold regular events and exhibitions. The event was a huge success that saw over 100 BLF leaders and members gathered until the early hours of this morning in deep debates about the revolution. In his keynote address, BLF president, Andile Mngxitama, raised a number of critical questions about the lessons of that revolution today. Amongst others, Mngxitama explained that the Russian revolutionary government rejected the fake communists of the racist South African Communist Party (SACP).  The SACP came under heavy criticism as an instrument of whites who infiltrated the African National Congress (ANC), which was initially like BLF, a blacks only organisation. The SACP was further exposed for having created and tamed Umkhonto We Sizwe in order to avoid a black liberation army which would have targeted the whole white settler population. The SACP gravitating towards supporting white monopoly capital should surprise no one, the event was told. Speaking after Mngxitama was accomplished Marxist scholar and activist, Oupa Lehulere from the Khanya College. Lehulere provided a detailed and eloquent narration of the events and lessons of the Russian revolution. His talk was inspiring and deeply informative.  The event included an interactive question and answer sessions and performances. A libation was done, along with the burning of impepho to chase out the evil spirits of racism which have befallen communism and to signal the expulsion of the fake communists of the SACP from the communist practice. Furthermore, the symbolic meeting of mqombothi and vodka was to signal the re-indigenisation of communism back to its African roots. BLF leadership explained that the organization was a fighting yet also thinking and learning movement.